SUBJECTIVE:,  This 23-year-old white female presents with complaint of allergies.  She used to have allergies when she lived in Seattle but she thinks they are worse here.  In the past, she has tried Claritin, and Zyrtec.  Both worked for short time but then seemed to lose effectiveness.  She has used Allegra also.  She used that last summer and she began using it again two weeks ago.  It does not appear to be working very well.  She has used over-the-counter sprays but no prescription nasal sprays.  She does have asthma but doest not require daily medication for this and does not think it is flaring up.,MEDICATIONS: , Her only medication currently is Ortho Tri-Cyclen and the Allegra.,ALLERGIES: , She has no known medicine allergies.,OBJECTIVE:,Vitals:  Weight was 130 pounds and blood pressure 124/78.,HEENT:  Her throat was mildly erythematous without exudate.  Nasal mucosa was erythematous and swollen.  Only clear drainage was seen.  TMs were clear.,Neck:  Supple without adenopathy.,Lungs:  Clear.,ASSESSMENT:,  Allergic rhinitis.,PLAN:,1.  She will try Zyrtec instead of Allegra again.  Another option will be to use loratadine.  She does not think she has prescription coverage so that might be cheaper.,2.  Samples of Nasonex two sprays in each nostril given for three weeks.  A prescription was written as well.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 65-year-old man with chronic prostatitis who returns for recheck.  He follow with Dr. XYZ about every three to four months.  His last appointment was in May 2004.  Has had decreased libido since he has been on Proscar.  He had tried Viagra with some improvement.  He has not had any urinary tract infection since he has been on Proscar.  Has nocturia x 3 to 4.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY/SURGERIES/HOSPITALIZATIONS:  ,Soon after birth for treatment of an inperforated anus and curvature of the penis.  At the age of 70 had another penile operation.  At the age of 27 and 28 he had repeat operations to correct this.  He did have complications of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism with one of those operations.  He has had procedures in the past for hypospadias, underwent an operation in 1988 to remove some tissue block in the anus.  In January of 1991 underwent cystoscopy.  He was hospitalized in 1970 for treatment of urinary tract infection.  In 2001, left rotator cuff repair with acromioplasty and distal clavicle resection.  In 2001, colonoscopy that was normal.  In 2001, prostate biopsy that showed chronic prostatitis.  In 2003, left inguinal hernia repair with MESH.,MEDICATIONS:,  Bactrim DS one pill a day, Proscar 5 mg a day, Flomax 0.4 mg daily.  He also uses Metamucil four times daily and stool softeners for bedtime.,ALLERGIES:,  Cipro.,FAMILY HISTORY:,  Father died from CA at the age of 79.  Mother died from postoperative infection at the age of 81.  Brother died from pancreatitis at the age of 40 and had a prior history of mental illness.  Father also had a prior history of lung cancer.  Mother had a history of breast cancer.  Father also had glaucoma.  He does not have any living siblings.  Friend died a year and half ago.,PERSONAL HISTORY:,  Negative for use of alcohol or tobacco.  He is a professor at College and teaches history and bible.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,Eyes, nose and throat:  Wears eye glasses.  Has had some gradual decreased hearing ability.,Pulmonary:  Denies difficulty with cough or sputum production or hemoptysis.,Cardiac:  Denies palpitations, chest pain, orthopnea, nocturnal dyspnea, or edema.,Gastrointestinal:  Has had difficulty with constipation.  He denies any positive stools.  Denies peptic ulcer disease.  Denies reflux or melena.,Genitourinary:  As mentioned previously.,Neurologic:  Without symptoms.,Bones and Joints:  He has had occasional back pain.,Hematologic:  Occasionally has had some soreness in the right axillary region, but has not had known lymphadenopathy.,Endocrine:  He has not had a history of hypercholesterolemia or diabetes.,Dermatologic:  Without symptoms.,Immunization:  He had pneumococcal vaccination about three years ago.  Had an adult DT immunization five years ago.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,Vital Signs:  Weight:  202.8 pounds.  Blood pressure:  126/72.  Pulse:  60.  Temperature:  96.8 degrees.,General Appearance:  He is a middle-aged man who is not in any acute distress.,HEENT:  Eyes:  Pupils are equally regular, round and reactive to light.  Extraocular movements are intact without nystagmus.  Visual fields were full to direct confrontation.  Funduscopic exam reveals middle size disc with sharp margins.  Ears:  Tympanic membranes are clear.  Mouth:  No oral mucosal lesions are seen.,Neck:  Without adenopathy or thyromegaly.,Chest:  Lungs are resonant to percussion.  Auscultation reveals normal breath sounds.,Heart:  Normal S1 and S2 without gallops or rubs.,Abdomen:  Without tenderness or masses to palpation.,Genitorectal exam:  Not repeated since these have been performed recently by Dr. Tandoc.,Extremities:  Without edema.,Neurologic:  Reflexes are +2 and symmetric throughout.  Babinski is negative and sensation is intact.  Cranial nerves are intact without localizing signs.  Cerebellar tension is normal.,IMPRESSION/PLAN:,1.  Chronic prostatitis.  He has been stable in this regard.,2.  Constipation.  He is encouraged to continue with his present measures.  Additionally, a TSH level will be obtained.,3.  Erectile dysfunction.  Testosterone level and comprehensive metabolic profile will be obtained.,4.  Anemia.  CBC will be rechecked.  Additional stools for occult blood will be rechecked.

SUBJECTIVE:,  She is here for a followup on her weight loss on phentermine.  She has gained another pound since she was here last.  We talked at length about the continued plateau she has had with her weight.  She gained a pound the month before and really has not been able to get her weight any farther down than she had when her lowest level was 136.  She is frustrated with this as well.  We agree that if she continues to plateau she really should not stay on phentermine.  We would not want her to take it to maintain her weight but only to help her get her weight down, and she may have really lost any benefit from it, and she agrees.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Otherwise negative.  She has no specific complaints.  No shortness of breath, chest pain or palpitations.,PHYSICAL EXAM:,Vital signs:  Her blood pressure is fine.  Her diastolic is a little bit high, but otherwise okay.,General:  She appears in good spirits.  No apparent distress.,HEENT:  Negative.,Neck:  Supple without bruits.,Chest:  Clear.,Cardiac exam:  Regular without extra sounds.,ASSESSMENT:,  Weight loss on phentermine, really has plateaued.,PLAN:,  If she does not lose weight in the next month we will probably consider having her go off the phentermine.  If she does lose a couple of pounds, then we will keep her on it until she gets closer to her goal of 135 and then try to keep her there for one or two months and then stop.  She agrees with this plan.

SUBJECTIVE: , The patient is a 60-year-old female, who complained of coughing during meals.  Her outpatient evaluation revealed a mild-to-moderate cognitive linguistic deficit, which was completed approximately 2 months ago.  The patient had a history of hypertension and TIA/stroke.  The patient denied history of heartburn and/or gastroesophageal reflux disorder.  A modified barium swallow study was ordered to objectively evaluate the patient's swallowing function and safety and to rule out aspiration.,OBJECTIVE: , Modified barium swallow study was performed in the Radiology Suite in cooperation with Dr. ABC.  The patient was seated upright in a video imaging chair throughout this assessment.  To evaluate the patient's swallowing function and safety, she was administered graduated amounts of liquid and food mixed with barium in the form of thin liquid (teaspoon x2, cup sip x2); nectar-thick liquid (teaspoon x2, cup sip x2); puree consistency (teaspoon x2); and solid food consistency (1/4 cracker x1).,ASSESSMENT,ORAL STAGE:,  Premature spillage to the level of the valleculae and pyriform sinuses with thin liquid.  Decreased tongue base retraction, which contributed to vallecular pooling after the swallow.,PHARYNGEAL STAGE: , No aspiration was observed during this evaluation.  Penetration was noted with cup sips of thin liquid only.  Trace residual on the valleculae and on tongue base with nectar-thick puree and solid consistencies.  The patient's hyolaryngeal elevation and anterior movement are within functional limits.  Epiglottic inversion is within functional limits.,CERVICAL ESOPHAGEAL STAGE:  ,The patient's upper esophageal sphincter opening is well coordinated with swallow and readily accepted the bolus.  Radiologist noted reduced peristaltic action of the constricted muscles in the esophagus, which may be contributing to the patient's complaint of globus sensation.,DIAGNOSTIC IMPRESSION:,  No aspiration was noted during this evaluation.  Penetration with cup sips of thin liquid.  The patient did cough during this evaluation, but that was noted related to aspiration or penetration.,PROGNOSTIC IMPRESSION: ,Based on this evaluation, the prognosis for swallowing and safety is good.,PLAN: , Based on this evaluation and following recommendations are being made:,1.  The patient to take small bite and small sips to help decrease the risk of aspiration and penetration.,2.  The patient should remain upright at a 90-degree angle for at least 45 minutes after meals to decrease the risk of aspiration and penetration as well as to reduce her globus sensation.,3.  The patient should be referred to a gastroenterologist for further evaluation of her esophageal function.,The patient does not need any skilled speech therapy for her swallowing abilities at this time, and she is discharged from my services.

SUBJECTIVE:,  He is a 29-year-old white male who is a patient of Dr. XYZ and he comes in today complaining that he was stung by a Yellow Jacket Wasp yesterday and now has a lot of swelling in his right hand and right arm.  He says that he has been stung by wasps before and had similar reactions.  He just said that he wanted to catch it early before he has too bad of a severe reaction like he has had in the past.  He has had a lot of swelling, but no anaphylaxis-type reactions in the past; no shortness of breath or difficultly with his throat feeling like it is going to close up or anything like that in the past; no racing heart beat or anxiety feeling, just a lot of localized swelling where the sting occurs.,OBJECTIVE:,Vitals:  His temperature is 98.4.  Respiratory rate is 18.  Weight is 250 pounds.,Extremities:  Examination of his right hand and forearm reveals that he has an apparent sting just around his wrist region on his right hand on the medial side as well as significant swelling in his hand and his right forearm; extending up to the elbow.  He says that it is really not painful or anything like that.  It is really not all that red and no signs of infection at this time.,ASSESSMENT:,  Wasp sting to the right wrist area.,PLAN:,1.  Solu-Medrol 125 mg IM X 1.,2.  Over-the-counter Benadryl, ice and elevation of that extremity.,3.  Follow up with Dr. XYZ if any further evaluation is needed.

SUBJECTIVE:,  Mom brings patient in today because of sore throat starting last night.  Eyes have been very puffy.  He has taken some Benadryl when all of this congestion started but with a sudden onset just yesterday.  He has had low-grade fever and just felt very run down, appearing very tired.  He is still eating and drinking well, and his voice has been hoarse but no coughing.  No shortness of breath, vomiting, diarrhea or abdominal pain.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Unremarkable.  There is no history of allergies.  He does have some history of some episodes of high blood pressure, and his weight is up about 14 pounds from the last year.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Noncontributory.  No one else at home is sick.,OBJECTIVE:,General:  A 13-year-old male appearing tired but in no acute distress.,Neck:  Supple without adenopathy.,HEENT:  Ear canals clear.  TMs, bilaterally, gray in color.  Good light reflex.  Oropharynx pink and moist.  No erythema or exudate.  Some drainage is seen in the posterior pharynx.  Nares:  Swollen, red.  No drainage seen.  No sinus tenderness.  Eyes are clear.,Chest:  Respirations are regular and nonlabored.,Lungs:  Clear to auscultation throughout.,Heart:  Regular rhythm without murmur.,Skin:  Warm, dry and pink, moist mucous membranes.  No rash.,LABORATORY:,  Strep test is negative.  Strep culture is negative.,RADIOLOGY:,  Water's View of the sinuses is negative for any sinusitis or acute infection.,ASSESSMENT:,  Upper respiratory infection.,PLAN:,  At this point just treat symptomatically.  I gave him some samples of Levall for the congestion and as an expectorant.  Push fluids and rest.  May use ibuprofen or Tylenol for discomfort.

SUBJECTIVE: , I am following the patient today for immune thrombocytopenia.  Her platelets fell to 10 on 01/09/07 and shortly after learning of that result, I increased her prednisone to 60 mg a day.  Repeat on 01/16/07 revealed platelets up at 43.  No bleeding problems have been noted.  I have spoken with her hematologist who recommends at this point we decrease her prednisone to 40 mg for 3 days and then go down to 20 mg a day.  The patient had been on 20 mg every other day at least for a while, and her platelets hovered at least above 20 or so.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: , Vitals:  As in chart.  The patient is alert, pleasant, and cooperative.  She is in no apparent distress.  The petechial areas on her legs have resolved.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: , Patient with improvement of her platelet count on burst of prednisone.  We will decrease her prednisone to 40 mg for 3 days, then go down to 20 mg a day.  Basically thereafter, over time, I may try to sneak it back a little bit further.  She is on medicines for osteoporosis including bisphosphonate and calcium with vitamin D.  We will arrange to have a CBC drawn weekly.,

SUBJECTIVE: , This patient presents to the office today with his mom for checkup.  He used to live in the city.  He used to go to college down in the city.  He got addicted to drugs.  He decided it would be a good idea to get away from the "bad crowd" and come up and live with his mom.  He has a history of doing heroin.  He was injecting into his vein.  He was seeing a physician in the city.  They were prescribing methadone for some time.  He says that did help.  He was on 10 mg of methadone.  He was on it for three to four months.  He tried to wean down on the methadone a couple of different times, but failed.  He has been intermittently using heroin.  He says one of the big problems is that he lives in a household full of drug users and he could not get away from it.  All that changed now that he is living with his mom.  The last time he did heroin was about seven to eight days ago.  He has not had any methadone in about a week either.  He is coming in today specifically requesting methadone.  He also admits to being depressed.  He is sad a lot and down.  He does not have much energy.  He does not have the enthusiasm.  He denies any suicidal or homicidal ideations at the present time.  I questioned him on the symptoms of bipolar disorder and he does not seem to have those symptoms.  His past medical history is significant for no medical problems.  Surgical history, he voluntarily donated his left kidney.  Family and social history were reviewed per the nursing notes.  His allergies are no known drug allergies.  Medications, he takes no medications regularly.,OBJECTIVE: , His weight is 164 pounds, blood pressure 108/60, pulse 88, respirations 16, and temperature was not taken.  General:  He is nontoxic and in no acute distress.  Psychiatric:  Alert and oriented times 3.  Skin:  I examined his upper extremities.  He showed me his injection sites.  I can see marks, but they seem to be healing up nicely.  I do not see any evidence of cellulitis.  There is no evidence of necrotizing fasciitis.,ASSESSMENT: , Substance abuse.,PLAN: , I had a long talk with the patient and his mom.  I am not prescribing him any narcotics or controlled substances.  I am not in the practice of trading one addiction for another.  It has been one week without any sort of drugs at all.  I do not think he needs weaning.  I think right now it is mostly psychological, although there still could be some residual physical addiction.  However, once again I do not believe it to be necessary to prescribe him any sort of controlled substance at the present time.  I do believe that his depression needs to be treated.  I gave him fluoxetine 20 mg one tablet daily.  I discussed the side effects in detail.  I did also warn him that all antidepressant medications carry an increased risk of suicide.  If he should start to feel any of these symptoms, he should call #911 or go to the emergency room immediately.  If he has any problems or side effects, he was also directed to call me here at the office.  After-hours, he can go to the emergency room or call #911.  I am going to see him back in three weeks for the depression.  I gave him the name and phone number of Behavioral Health and I told him to call so that he can get into rehabilitation program or at least a support group.  We are unable to make a referral for him to do that.  He has to call on his own.  He has no insurance.  However, I think fluoxetine is very affordable.  He can get it for $4 per month at Wal-Mart.  His mom is going to keep an eye on him as well.  He is going to be staying there.  It sounds like he is looking for a job.

SUBJECTIVE: , The patient is admitted for shortness of breath, continues to do fairly well.  The patient has chronic atrial fibrillation, on anticoagulation, INR of 1.72.  The patient did undergo echocardiogram, which shows aortic stenosis, severe.  The patient does have an outside cardiologist.  I understand she was scheduled to undergo workup in this regard.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION,VITAL SIGNS:  Pulse of 78 and blood pressure 130/60.,LUNGS:  Clear.,HEART:  A soft systolic murmur in the aortic area.,ABDOMEN:  Soft and nontender.,EXTREMITIES:  No edema.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Status shortness of breath responding well to medical management.,2.  Atrial fibrillation, chronic, on anticoagulation.,3.  Aortic stenosis.,RECOMMENDATIONS:,1.  Continue medications as above.,2.  The patient would like to follow with her cardiologist regarding aortic stenosis.  She may need a surgical intervention in this regard, which I explained to her.  The patient will be discharged home on medical management and she has an appointment to see her cardiologist in the next few days.,In the interim, if she changes her mind or if she has any concerns, I have requested to call me back.

SUBJECTIVE: , She is a 79-year-old female who came in with acute cholecystitis and underwent attempted laparoscopic cholecystectomy 8 days ago.  The patient has required conversion to an open procedure due to difficult anatomy.  Her postoperative course has been lengthened due to a prolonged ileus, which resolved with tetracycline and Reglan.  The patient is starting to improve, gain more strength.  She is tolerating her regular diet.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,VITAL SIGNS:  Today, her temperature is 98.4, heart rate 84, respirations 20, and BP is 140/72.,LUNGS:  Clear to auscultation.  No wheezes, rales, or rhonchi.,HEART:  Regular rhythm and rate.,ABDOMEN:  Soft, less tender.,LABORATORY DATA:,  Her white count continues to come down.  Today, it is 11.6, H&H of 8.8 and 26.4, platelets 359,000.  We have ordered type and cross for 2 units of packed red blood cells.  If it drops below 25, she will receive a transfusion.  Her electrolytes today show a glucose of 107, sodium 137, potassium 4.0, chloride 103.2, bicarbonate 29.7.  Her AST is 43, ALT is 223, her alkaline phosphatase is 214, and her bilirubin is less than 0.10.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,  She had a bowel movement today and is continuing to improve.,I anticipate another 3 days in the hospital for strengthening and continued TPN and resolution of elevated white count.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is admitted for lung mass and also pleural effusion.  The patient had a chest tube placement, which has been taken out.  The patient has chronic atrial fibrillation, on anticoagulation.  The patient is doing fairly well.  This afternoon, she called me because heart rate was in the range of 120 to 140.  The patient is lying down.  She does have shortness of breath, but denies any other significant symptoms.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  History of mastectomy, chest tube placement, and atrial fibrillation; chronic.,MEDICATIONS:,1.  Cardizem, which is changed to 60 mg p.o. t.i.d.,2.  Digoxin 0.25 mg daily.,3.  Coumadin, adjusted dose.,4.  Clindamycin.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION,VITAL SIGNS:  Pulse 122 and blood pressure 102/68.,LUNGS:  Air entry decreased.,HEART:  PMI is displaced.  S1 and S2 are irregular.,ABDOMEN:  Soft and nontender.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Pulmonary disorder with lung mass.,2.  Pleural effusion.,3.  Chronic uncontrolled atrial fibrillation secondary to pulmonary disorder.,RECOMMENDATIONS:,1.  From cardiac standpoint, follow with pulmonary treatment.,2.  The patient has an INR of 2.09.  She is on anticoagulation.  Atrial fibrillation is chronic with the rate increased.,Adjust the medications accordingly as above.

SUBJECTIVE: , This patient presents to the office today because of some problems with her right hand.  It has been going tingling and getting numb periodically over several weeks.  She just recently moved her keyboard down at work.  She is hoping that will help.  She is worried about carpal tunnel.  She does a lot of repetitive type activities.  It is worse at night.  If she sleeps on it a certain way, she will wake up and it will be tingling then she can usually shake out the tingling, but nonetheless it is very bothersome for her.  It involves mostly the middle finger, although, she says it also involves the first and second digits on the right hand.  She has some pain in her thumb as well.  She thinks that could be arthritis.,OBJECTIVE: , Weight 213.2 pounds, blood pressure 142/84, pulse 92, respirations 16.  General:  The patient is nontoxic and in no acute distress.  Musculoskeletal:  The right hand was examined.  It appears to be within normal limits and the appearance is similar to the left hand.  She has good and equal grip strength noted bilaterally.  She has negative Tinel's bilaterally.  She has a positive Phalen's test.  The fingers on the right hand are neurovascularly intact with a normal capillary refill.,ASSESSMENT:  ,Numbness and tingling in the right upper extremity, intermittent and related to the positioning of the wrist.  I suspect carpal tunnel syndrome.,PLAN:  ,The patient is going to use Anaprox double strength one pill every 12 hours with food as well as a cock-up wrist splint.  We are going to try this for two weeks and if the condition is still present, then we are going to proceed with EMG test at that time.  She is going to let me know.  While she is here, I am going to also get her the blood test she needs for her diabetes.  I am noting that her blood pressure is elevated, but improved from the last visit.  I also noticed that she has lost a lot of weight.  She is working on diet and exercise and she is doing a great job.  Right now for the blood pressure we are going to continue to observe as she carries forward additional measures in her diet and exercise to lose more weight and I expect the blood pressure will continue to improve.

SUBJECTIVE: , The patient is a 55-year-old African-American male that was last seen in clinic on 07/29/2008 with diagnosis of new onset seizures and an MRI scan, which demonstrated right contrast-enhancing temporal mass.  Given the characteristics of this mass and his new onset seizures, it is significantly concerning for a high-grade glioma.  ,OBJECTIVE: , The patient is alert and oriented times three, GCS of 15.  Cranial nerves II to XII are grossly intact.  Motor exam demonstrates 5/5 strength in all four extremities.  Sensation is intact to light touch, pain, temperature, and proprioception.  Cerebellar exam is intact.  Gait is normal and tandem on heels and toes.  Speech is appropriate.  Judgment is intact.  Pupils are equal and reactive to light.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: , The patient is a 55-year-old African-American male with a new diagnosis of rim-enhancing right temporal mass.  Given the characteristics of the MRI scan, it is highly likely that he demonstrates high-grade glioma and concerning for glioblastoma multiforme.  We have discussed in length the possible benefits of biopsy, surgical resection, medical management, as well as chemotherapy, radiation treatments, and doing nothing.  Given the high probability that the mass represents a high-grade glioma, the patient, after weighing the risks and the benefits of surgery, has agreed to undergo a surgical biopsy and resection of the mass as well as concomitant chemotherapy and radiation as the diagnosis demonstrates a high-grade glioma.  The patient has signed consent for his right temporal craniotomy for biopsy and likely resection of right temporal brain tumor.  He agrees that he will be n.p.o. after mid night on Wednesday night.  He is sent for preoperative assessment with the Anesthesiology tomorrow morning.  He has undergone vocational rehab assessment.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 33-year-old black male who comes in to the office today main complaint of sexual dysfunction.  Patient reports that he would like to try Cialis to see if it will improve his erectile performance.  Patient states that he did a quiz on-line at the Cialis web site and did not score in the normal range, so he thought he should come in.  Patient states that perhaps his desire has been slightly decreased, but that has not been the primary problem.  In discussing with me directly, patient primarily expresses that he would like to have his erections last longer.  However, looking at the quiz as he filled it out, he reported that much less than half the time was he able to get erections during sexual activity and only about half of the time he was able to maintain his erection after penetration.  However, he only reports that it is slightly difficult to maintain the erection until completion of intercourse.  Patient has no significant past medical history.  He has never had any previous testicular infections.  He denies any history of injuries to the groin and he has never been told that he has a hernia.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  None.,ALLERGIES: , No drug allergies.,SOCIAL: , Only occasionally drinks alcohol and he is a nonsmoker.  He currently is working as a nurse aid, second shift, at a nursing home.  He states that he did not enroll in Wichita State this semester.  Stating he just was tired and wanted to take some time off.  He states he is in a relationship with one partner and denies any specific stress in the relationship.,OBJECTIVE:,General:  He appears in no distress.,Vital Signs:  Blood pressure:  With large cuff is 120/90.,Lungs:  Clear to auscultation.,Cardiovascular:  Normal S1-S2 without murmur.,Abdomen:  Soft, nontender.  Femoral pulses are 2+.,GU:  Testicles descended bilaterally.  No evidence of masses.  No evidence of inguinal hernias.,ASSESSMENT:,  Sexual dysfunction.,PLAN:,  We will check a free and total testosterone level as he does note some diminished desire.  He was given a sample of Cialis 10 mg with instructions on usage and a prescription for that if that is successful.  He will follow up here p.r.n.  Lastly, I did give him a blood pressure recording card, as his blood pressure is borderline today.  He will have that checked weekly at his workplace and follow up if they remain elevated.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is here for a follow-up.  The patient has a history of lupus, currently on Plaquenil 200-mg b.i.d.  Eye report was noted and appreciated.  The patient states that she is having some aches and pains of the hands and elbows that started recently a few weeks ago.  She denied having any trauma.  She states that the pain is bothering her.  She denies having any fevers, chills, or any joint effusion or swelling at this point.  She noted also that there is some increase in her hair loss in the recent times.,OBJECTIVE:,  The patient is alert and oriented.  General physical exam is unremarkable.  Musculoskeletal exam reveals positive tenderness in both lateral epicondyles of both elbows, no effusion.  Hand examination is unremarkable today.  The rest of the musculoskeletal exam is unremarkable.,ASSESSMENT:,  Epicondylitis, both elbows, possibly secondary to lupus flare-up.,PLAN:,  We will inject both elbows with 40-mg of Kenalog mixed with 1 cc of lidocaine.  The posterior approach was chosen under sterile conditions.  The patient tolerated both procedures well.  I will obtain CBC and urinalysis today.  If the patient's pain does not improve, I will consider adding methotrexate to her therapy.,Sample Doctor M.D.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient returns to the Pulmonary Medicine Clinic for followup evaluation of COPD and emphysema.  She was last seen in the clinic in March 2004.  Since that time, she has been hospitalized for psychiatric problems and now is in a nursing facility.  She is very frustrated with her living situation and would like to return to her own apartment, however, some believes she is to ill to care for herself.,At the present time, respiratory status is relatively stable.  She is still short of breath with activity, but all-in-all her pulmonary disease has not changed significantly since her last visit.  She does have occasional cough and a small amount of sputum production.  No fever or chills.  No chest pains.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  The patient’s current medications are as outlined.,ALLERGIES TO MEDICATIONS:,  Erythromycin.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Significant for problems with agitated depression.  Her respiratory status is unchanged as noted above.,EXAMINATION:,General:  The patient is in no acute distress.,Vital signs:  Blood pressure is 152/80, pulse 80 and respiratory rate 16.,HEENT:  Nasal mucosa was mild-to-moderately erythematous and edematous.  Oropharynx was clear.,Neck:  Supple without palpable lymphadenopathy.,Chest:  Chest demonstrates decreased breath sounds throughout all lung fields, coarse but relatively clear.,Cardiovascular:  Distant heart tones.  Regular rate and rhythm.,Abdomen:  Soft and nontender.,Extremities:  Without edema.,Oxygen saturation was checked today on room air, at rest it was 90%.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease/emphysema, severe but stable.,2.  Mild hypoxemia, however, oxygen saturation at rest is stable without supplemental oxygen.,3.  History of depression and schizophrenia.,PLAN:,  At this point, I have recommended that she continue current respiratory medicine.  I did suggest that she would not use her oxygen when she is simply sitting, watching television or reading.  I have recommended that she use it with activity and at night.  I spoke with her about her living situation.  Encouraged her to speak with her family, as well as primary care physician about making efforts for her to return to her apartment.  Follow up evaluation is planned in Pulmonary Medicine Clinic in approximately three months or sooner if need be.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a 6-year-old male who comes in rechecking his ADHD medicines.  We placed him on Adderall, first time he has been on a stimulant medication last month.  Mother said the next day, he had a wonderful improvement, and he has been doing very well with the medicine.  She has two concerns.  It seems like first thing in the morning after he takes the medicine and it seems like it takes a while for the medicine to kick in.  It wears off about 2 and they have problems in the evening with him.  He was initially having difficulty with his appetite but that seems to be coming back but it is more the problems early in the morning after he takes this medicine than in the afternoon when the thing wears off.  His teachers have seen a dramatic improvement and she did miss a dose this past weekend and said he was just horrible.  The patient even commented that he thought he needed his medication.,PAST HISTORY:,  Reviewed from appointment on 08/16/2004.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  He is on Adderall XR 10 mg once daily.,ALLERGIES: , To medicines are none.,FAMILY AND SOCIAL HISTORY:,  Reviewed from appointment on 08/16/2004.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  He has been having problems as mentioned in the morning and later in the afternoon but he has been eating well, sleeping okay.  Review of systems is otherwise negative.,OBJECTIVE:,  Weight is 46.5 pounds, which is down just a little bit from his appointment last month.  He was 49 pounds, but otherwise, fairly well controlled, not all that active in the exam room.  Physical exam itself was deferred today because he has otherwise been very healthy.,ASSESSMENT:,  At this point is attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, doing fairly well with the Adderall.,PLAN:,  Discussed with mother two options.  Switch him to the Ritalin LA, which I think has better release of the medicine early in the morning or to increase his Adderall dose.  As far as the afternoon, if she really wanted him to be on the medication, we will do a small dose of the Adderall, which she would prefer.  So I have decided at this point to increase him to the Adderall XR 15 mg in the morning and then Adderall 5 mg in the afternoon.  Mother is to watch his diet.  We would like to recheck his weight if he is doing very well, in two months.  But if there are any problems, especially in the morning then we would do the Ritalin LA.  Mother understands and will call if there are problems.  Approximately 25 minutes spent with patient, all in discussion.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient returns to the Pulmonary Medicine Clinic for followup evaluation of interstitial disease secondary to lupus pneumonitis.  She was last seen in the Pulmonary Medicine Clinic in January 2004.  Since that time, her respiratory status has been quite good.  She has had no major respiratory difficulties; however, starting yesterday she began with increasing back and joint pain and as a result a deep breath has caused some back discomfort.  She denies any problems with cough or sputum production.  No fevers or chills.  Recently, she has had a bit more problems with fatigue.  For the most part, she has had no pulmonary limitations to her activity.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Synthroid 0.112 mg daily; Prilosec 20 mg daily; prednisone, she was 2.5 mg daily, but discontinued this on 06/16/2004; Plaquenil 200 mg b.i.d.; Imuran 100 mg daily; Advair one puff b.i.d.; Premarin 0.3 mg daily; Lipitor 10 mg Monday through Friday; Actonel 35 mg weekly; and aspirin 81 mg daily.  She is also on calcium, vitamin D, vitamin E, vitamin C and a multivitamin.,ALLERGIES:,  Penicillin and also intolerance to shellfish.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Noncontributory except as outlined above.,EXAMINATION:,General:  The patient was in no acute distress.,Vital signs:  Blood pressure 122/60, pulse 72 and respiratory rate 16.,HEENT:  Nasal mucosa was mild-to-moderately erythematous and edematous.  Oropharynx was clear.,Neck:  Supple without palpable lymphadenopathy.,Chest:  Chest demonstrates decreased breath sounds, but clear.,Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm.,Abdomen:  Soft and nontender.,Extremities:  Without edema.  No skin lesions.,O2 saturation was checked at rest.  On room air it was 96% and on ambulation it varied between 94% and 96%.  Chest x-ray obtained today showed mild increased interstitial markings consistent with a history of lupus pneumonitis.  She has not had the previous chest x-ray with which to compare; however, I did compare the markings was less prominent when compared with previous CT scan.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Lupus with mild pneumonitis.,2.  Respiratory status is stable.,3.  Increasing back and joint pain, possibly related to patient’s lupus, however, in fact may be related to recent discontinuation of prednisone.,PLAN:,  At this time, I have recommended to continue her current medications.  We would like to see her back in approximately four to five months, at which time I would like to recheck her pulmonary function test as well as check CAT scan.  At that point, it may be reasonable to consider weaning her Imuran if her pulmonary status is stable and the lupus appears to be under control.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 65-year-old man with chronic prostatitis who returns for recheck.  He follow with Dr. XYZ about every three to four months.  His last appointment was in May 2004.  Has had decreased libido since he has been on Proscar.  He had tried Viagra with some improvement.  He has not had any urinary tract infection since he has been on Proscar.  Has nocturia x 3 to 4.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY/SURGERIES/HOSPITALIZATIONS:  ,Soon after birth for treatment of an inperforated anus and curvature of the penis.  At the age of 70 had another penile operation.  At the age of 27 and 28 he had repeat operations to correct this.  He did have complications of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism with one of those operations.  He has had procedures in the past for hypospadias, underwent an operation in 1988 to remove some tissue block in the anus.  In January of 1991 underwent cystoscopy.  He was hospitalized in 1970 for treatment of urinary tract infection.  In 2001, left rotator cuff repair with acromioplasty and distal clavicle resection.  In 2001, colonoscopy that was normal.  In 2001, prostate biopsy that showed chronic prostatitis.  In 2003, left inguinal hernia repair with MESH.,MEDICATIONS:,  Bactrim DS one pill a day, Proscar 5 mg a day, Flomax 0.4 mg daily.  He also uses Metamucil four times daily and stool softeners for bedtime.,ALLERGIES:,  Cipro.,FAMILY HISTORY:,  Father died from CA at the age of 79.  Mother died from postoperative infection at the age of 81.  Brother died from pancreatitis at the age of 40 and had a prior history of mental illness.  Father also had a prior history of lung cancer.  Mother had a history of breast cancer.  Father also had glaucoma.  He does not have any living siblings.  Friend died a year and half ago.,PERSONAL HISTORY:,  Negative for use of alcohol or tobacco.  He is a professor at College and teaches history and bible.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,Eyes, nose and throat:  Wears eye glasses.  Has had some gradual decreased hearing ability.,Pulmonary:  Denies difficulty with cough or sputum production or hemoptysis.,Cardiac:  Denies palpitations, chest pain, orthopnea, nocturnal dyspnea, or edema.,Gastrointestinal:  Has had difficulty with constipation.  He denies any positive stools.  Denies peptic ulcer disease.  Denies reflux or melena.,Genitourinary:  As mentioned previously.,Neurologic:  Without symptoms.,Bones and Joints:  He has had occasional back pain.,Hematologic:  Occasionally has had some soreness in the right axillary region, but has not had known lymphadenopathy.,Endocrine:  He has not had a history of hypercholesterolemia or diabetes.,Dermatologic:  Without symptoms.,Immunization:  He had pneumococcal vaccination about three years ago.  Had an adult DT immunization five years ago.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,Vital Signs:  Weight:  202.8 pounds.  Blood pressure:  126/72.  Pulse:  60.  Temperature:  96.8 degrees.,General Appearance:  He is a middle-aged man who is not in any acute distress.,HEENT:  Eyes:  Pupils are equally regular, round and reactive to light.  Extraocular movements are intact without nystagmus.  Visual fields were full to direct confrontation.  Funduscopic exam reveals middle size disc with sharp margins.  Ears:  Tympanic membranes are clear.  Mouth:  No oral mucosal lesions are seen.,Neck:  Without adenopathy or thyromegaly.,Chest:  Lungs are resonant to percussion.  Auscultation reveals normal breath sounds.,Heart:  Normal S1 and S2 without gallops or rubs.,Abdomen:  Without tenderness or masses to palpation.,Genitorectal exam:  Not repeated since these have been performed recently by Dr. Tandoc.,Extremities:  Without edema.,Neurologic:  Reflexes are +2 and symmetric throughout.  Babinski is negative and sensation is intact.  Cranial nerves are intact without localizing signs.  Cerebellar tension is normal.,IMPRESSION/PLAN:,1.  Chronic prostatitis.  He has been stable in this regard.,2.  Constipation.  He is encouraged to continue with his present measures.  Additionally, a TSH level will be obtained.,3.  Erectile dysfunction.  Testosterone level and comprehensive metabolic profile will be obtained.,4.  Anemia.  CBC will be rechecked.  Additional stools for occult blood will be rechecked.

SUBJECTIVE:,  Mr. Sample Patient returns to the Sample Clinic with the chief complaint of painful right heel.  The patient states that the heel has been painful for approximately two weeks, it is starts with the first step in the morning and gets worse with activity during the day.  The patient states that he is currently doing no treatment for it.  He states that most of his pain is along medial tubercle of the right calcaneus and extends to the medial arch.  The patient states that he has no change in the past medical history since his last visit and denies any fever, chills, vomiting, headache, chest, or shortness of breath.,OBJECTIVE:,  Upon removal of shoes and socks bilaterally, neurovascular status remains unchanged since the last visit.  There is tenderness to palpation to the medial tubercle of the right foot.  The pain is elicited along the medial arch as well.  There are no open areas or signs of infection noted.,ASSESSMENT:,  Plantar fascitis/heel spur syndrome, right foot.,PLAN:,  The patient was given injections of 3 cc 2:1 mixture of 1% lidocaine plain with dexamethasone phospate.  He was given a low dye strapping and a heel lift was placed in his right shoe.  The patient will be seen back in approximately one month for further evaluation if necessary.  He was told to call if anything should occur before that.  The patient was told to continue with the good work on his diabetic control.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This 47-year-old white female presents with concern about possible spider bite to the left side of her neck.  She is not aware of any specific injury.  She noticed a little tenderness and redness on her left posterior shoulder about two days ago.  It seems to be getting a little bit larger in size, and she saw some red streaks extending up her neck.  She has had no fever.  The area is very minimally tender, but not particularly so.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Generic Maxzide, Climara patch, multivitamin, Tums, Claritin, and vitamin C.,ALLERGIES:,  No known medicine allergies.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital Signs:  Weight is 150 pounds.  Blood pressure 122/82.,Extremities:  Examination of the left posterior shoulder near the neckline is an area of faint erythema which is 6 cm in diameter.  In the center is a tiny mark which could certainly be an insect or spider bite.  There is no eschar there, but just a tiny marking.  There are a couple of erythematous streaks extending towards the neck.,ASSESSMENT:,  Possible insect bite with lymphangitis.,PLAN:,1.  Duricef 1 g daily for seven days.,2.  Cold packs to the area.,3.  Discussed symptoms that were suggestive of the worsening, in which case she would need to call me.,4.  Incidentally, she has noticed a little bit of dryness and redness on her eyelids, particularly the upper ones’ and the lower lateral areas.  I suspect she has a mild contact dermatitis and suggested hydrocortisone 1% cream to be applied sparingly at bedtime only.

SUBJECTIVE:,  He is a 24-year-old male who said that he had gotten into some poison ivy this weekend while he was fishing.  He has had several cases of this in the past and he says that is usually takes quite awhile for him to get over it; he said that the last time he was here he got a steroid injection by Dr. Blackman; it looked like it was Depo-Medrol 80 mg.  He said that it worked fairly well, although it seemed to still take awhile to get rid of it.  He has been using over-the-counter Benadryl as well as cortisone cream on the areas of the rash and having a little bit of improvement, but this last weekend he must have gotten into some more poison ivy because he has got another outbreak along his chest, legs, arms and back.,OBJECTIVE:,Vitals:  Temperature is 99.2.  His weight is 207 pounds.,Skin:  Examination reveals a raised, maculopapular rash in kind of a linear pattern over his arms, legs and chest area which are consistent with a poison ivy or a poison oak.,ASSESSMENT AND ,PLAN:,  Poison ivy.  Plan would be Solu-Medrol 125 mg IM X 1.  Continue over-the-counter Benadryl or Rx allergy medicine that he was given the last time he was here, which is a one-a-day allergy medicine; he can not exactly remember what it is, which would also be fine rather than the over-the-counter Benadryl if he would like to use that instead.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient returns today for a followup.  She was recently in the hospital and was found to be septic from nephrolithiasis.  This was all treated.  She did require a stent in the left ureter.  Dr. XYZ took care of this.  She had a stone, which was treated with lithotripsy.  She is now back here for followup.  I had written out all of her medications with their dose and schedule on a progress sheet.  I had given her instructions regarding follow up here and follow with Dr. F.  Unfortunately, that piece of paper was lost.  Somehow between the hospital and home she lost it and has not been able to find it.  She has no followup appointment with Dr. F.  The day after she was dismissed, her nephew called me stating that the prescriptions were lost, instructions were lost, etc.  Later she apparently found the prescriptions and they were filled.  She tells me she is taking the antibiotic, which I believe was Levaquin and she has one more to take.  She had no clue as to seeing Dr. XYZ again.  She says she is still not feeling very well and feels somewhat sick like.  She has no clue as to still having a ureteral stent.  I explained this to she and her husband again today.,ALLERGIES: , Sulfa.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  As I have given are Levaquin, Prinivil 20 mg a day, Bumex 0.5 mg a day, Levsinex 0.375 mg a day, cimetidine 400 mg a day, potassium chloride 8 mEq a day, and atenolol 25 mg a day.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  She says she is voiding okay.  She denies fever, chills, or sweats.,OBJECTIVE:,General:  She was able to get up on the table by herself although she is quite unstable.,Vital Signs:  Blood pressure was okay at about 120/70 by me.,Neck:  Supple.,Lungs:  Clear.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm.,Abdomen:  Soft.,Extremities:  There is no edema.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Hypertension controlled.,2.  Nephrolithiasis status post lithotripsy and stent placed in the left ureter by Dr. F.,3.  Urinary incontinence.,4.  Recent sepsis.,PLAN:,1.  I discussed at length with she and her husband again the need to get into at least an assisted living apartment.,2.  I gave her instructions, in writing, to stop by Dr. F’s office on the way out today to get an appointment for followup regarding her stent.,3.  See me back here in two months.,4.  I made no changes in her medications.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient was seen today by me at Nursing Home for her multiple medical problems.  The nurses report that she has been confused at times, having incontinent stool in the sink one time but generally she does not do that poorly.  She does have trouble walking which she attributes to weak legs.  She fell a couple of months ago.  Her eating has been fair.  She has been losing weight a little bit.  She denies diarrhea.  She does complain of feeling listless and unambitious and would like to try some Ensure.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Her meds are fairly extensive and include B12 1000 mg IM monthly, Digitek 250 p.o. every other day alternating with 125 mcg p.o. every other day, aspirin 81 mg daily, Theragran-M daily, Toprol XL 25 mg daily, vitamin B6 100 mg daily, Prevacid 30 mg daily, Oyster Shell calcium with D 500 mg t.i.d., Aricept 5 mg daily, Tylenol 650 mg q.4h. p.r.n., furosemide 20 mg daily p.r.n., and sublingual Nitro p.r.n., and alprazolam 0.25 mg p.r.n.,ALLERGIES:,  Sulfa and trimethoprim.,OBJECTIVE:,General:  She is a well-developed, well-nourished, elderly female in no acute distress.,Vital Signs:  Her age is 90.  Temperature is 98.5 degrees.  Blood pressure:  100/54.  Pulse:  60.  Respirations:  18.  Weight was 132.6 about a week ago, which is down one pound from couple of months ago.,HEENT:  Head was normocephalic.,Neck:  Supple.,Lungs:  Clear.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm.,Abdomen:  Soft, nontender without hepatosplenomegaly or mass.,Extremities:  No calf tenderness or significant ankle edema x 2 in the lower extremities is noted.,Mental Status Exam:  She was uncertain what season we are in.  She thought we were almost in winter.  She did know that today of the week was Friday.  She seemed to recognize me.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Alzheimer’s dementia.,2.  Gradual weight loss.,3.  Fatigue.,4.  B12 deficiency.,5.  Osteoporosis.,6.  Hypertension.,PLAN:,  I ordered yearly digoxin levels.  Increased her Aricept to 10 mg daily.  She apparently does have intermittent atrial fibrillation as a reason for being on the digoxin.  We will plan to recheck her in a couple of months.  Ordered health supplement to be offered after each meal due to her weight loss.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 78-year-old female who returns for recheck.  She has hypertension.  She denies difficulty with chest pain, palpations, orthopnea, nocturnal dyspnea, or edema.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY / SURGERY / HOSPITALIZATIONS:,  Reviewed and unchanged from the dictation on 12/03/2003.,MEDICATIONS:  ,Atenolol 50 mg daily, Premarin 0.625 mg daily, calcium with vitamin D two to three pills daily, multivitamin daily, aspirin as needed, and TriViFlor 25 mg two pills daily.  She also has Elocon cream 0.1% and Synalar cream 0.01% that she uses as needed for rash.,ALLERGIES:  ,Benadryl, phenobarbitone, morphine, Lasix, and latex.,FAMILY HISTORY / PERSONAL HISTORY: , Reviewed.  Mother died from congestive heart failure.  Father died from myocardial infarction at the age of 56.  Family history is positive for ischemic cardiac disease.  Brother died from lymphoma.  She has one brother living who has had angioplasties x 2.  She has one brother with asthma.,PERSONAL HISTORY:,  Negative for use of alcohol or tobacco.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,Bones and Joints:  She has had continued difficulty with lower back pain particularly with standing which usually radiates down her right leg.  She had been followed by Dr. Mills, but decided to see Dr. XYZ who referred to her Dr Isaac.  She underwent several tests.  She did have magnetic resonance angiography of the lower extremities and the aorta which were normal.  She had nerve conduction study that showed several peripheral polyneuropathy.  She reports that she has myelogram last week but has not got results of this.  She reports that the rest of her tests have been normal, but it seems that vertebrae shift when she stands and then pinches the nerve.  She is now seeing Dr. XYZ who comes to Hutchison from KU Medical Center, and she thinks that she probably will have surgery in the near future.,Genitourinary:  She has occasional nocturia.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,Vital Signs:  Weight:  227.2 pounds.  Blood pressure:  144/72.  Pulse:  80.  Temperature:  97.5 degrees.,General Appearance:  She is an elderly female patient who is not in acute distress.,Mouth:  Posterior pharynx is clear.,Neck:  Without adenopathy or thyromegaly.,Chest:  Lungs are resonant to percussion.  Auscultation reveals normal breath sounds.,Heart:  Normal S1 and S2 without gallops or rubs.,Abdomen:  Without masses or tenderness to palpation.,Extremities:  Without edema.,IMPRESSION/PLAN:,1.  Hypertension.  She is advised to continue with the same medication.,2.  Syncope.  She previously had an episode of syncope around Thanksgiving.  She has not had a recurrence of this and her prior cardiac studies did not show arrhythmias.,3.  Spinal stenosis.  She still is being evaluated for this and possibly will have surgery in the near future.

SUBJECTIVE:  ,This patient presents to the office today for a checkup.  He has several things to go over and discuss.  First he is sick.  He has been sick for a month intermittently, but over the last couple of weeks it is worse.  He is having a lot of yellow phlegm when he coughs.  It feels likes it is in his chest.  He has been taking Allegra-D intermittently, but he is almost out and he needs a refill.  The second problem, his foot continues to breakout.  It seems like it was getting a lot better and now it is bad again.  He was diagnosed with tinea pedis previously, but he is about out of the Nizoral cream.  I see that he is starting to breakout again now that the weather is warmer and I think that is probably not a coincidence.  He works in the flint and it is really hot where he works and it has been quite humid lately.  The third problem is that he has a wart or a spot that he thinks is a wart on the right middle finger.  He is interested in getting that frozen today.  Apparently, he tells me I froze a previous wart on him in the past and it went away.  Next, he is interested in getting some blood test done.  He specifically mentions the blood test for his prostate, which I informed him is called the PSA.  He is 50 years old now.  He will also be getting his cholesterol checked again because he has a history of high cholesterol.  He made a big difference in his cholesterol by quitting smoking, but unfortunately after taking his social history today he tells me that he is back to smoking.  He says it is difficult to quit.  He tells me he did quit chewing tobacco.  I told him to keep trying to quit smoking.  ,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  General:  With this illness he has had no problems with fever.  HEENT:  Some runny nose, more runny nose than congestion.  Respiratory:  Denies shortness of breath.  Skin:  He has a peeling skin on the bottom of his feet, mostly the right foot that he is talking about today.  At times it is itchy.,OBJECTIVE: , His weight is 238.4 pounds, blood pressure 128/74, temperature 97.8, pulse 80, and respirations 16.  General exam:  The patient is nontoxic and in no acute distress.  Ears:  Tympanic membranes pearly gray bilaterally.  Mouth:  No erythema, ulcers, vesicles, or exudate noted.  Neck is supple.  No lymphadenopathy.  Lungs:  Clear to auscultation.  No rales, rhonchi, or wheezing.  Cardiac:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur.  Extremities:  No edema, cyanosis, or clubbing.  Skin exam:  I checked out the bottom of his right foot.  He has peeling skin visible consistent with tinea pedis.  On the anterior aspect of the right third finger there is a small little raised up area that I believe represents a wart.  The size of this wart is approximately 3 mm in diameter.,ASSESSMENT:  ,1.  Upper respiratory tract infection, persistent.,2.  Tinea pedis.,3.  Wart on the finger.,4.  Hyperlipidemia.,5.  Tobacco abuse.,PLAN: , The patient is getting a refill on Allegra-D.  I am giving him a refill on the Nizoral 2% cream that he should use to the foot area twice a day.  I gave him instructions on how to keep the foot clean and dry because I think the reason we are dealing with this persistent problem is the fact that his feet are hot and sweaty a lot because of his work.  His wart has been present for some time now and he would like to get it frozen.  I offered him the liquid nitrogen treatment and he did agree to it.  I used liquid nitrogen after a verbal consent was obtained from the patient to freeze the wart.  He tolerated the procedure very well.  I froze it once and I allowed for a 3 mm freeze zone.  I gave him verbal wound care instructions after the procedure.  Lastly, when he is fasting I am going to send him to the lab with a slip, which I gave him today for a basic metabolic profile, CBC, fasting lipid profile, and a screening PSA test.  Lastly, for the upper respiratory tract infection, I am giving him amoxicillin 500 mg three times a day for 10 days.

SUBJECTIVE: , I am following the patient today for multiple issues.  He once again developed gross hematuria, which was unprovoked.  His Coumadin has been held.  The patient has known BPH and is on Flomax.  He is being treated with Coumadin because of atrial fibrillation and stroke.  This is the second time he has had significant gross hematuria this month.  He also fell about a week ago and is complaining of buttock pain and leg pain.  We did get x-rays of hips, knees, and ankles.  Clearly, he has significant degenerative disease in all these areas.  No fractures noted however.  He felt that the pain is pretty severe and particularly worse in the morning.  His sinuses are bothering him.  He wonders about getting some nasal saline spray.  We talked about Coumadin, stroke risk, etc. in the setting of atrial fibrillation.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: , Vitals:  As in chart.  The patient is alert, pleasant, and cooperative.  He is not in any apparent distress.  He is comfortable in a seated position.  I did not examine him further today.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,1.  Hematuria.  Coumadin needs to be stopped, so we will evaluate what is going on, which is probably just some BPH.  We will also obtain a repeat UA as he did describe to me some dysuria.  However, I do not think this would account for the gross hematuria.  He will be started on an aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily.,2.  For the pain we will try him on Lortab.  He will get a Lortab everyday in the morning 5/500 prior to getting out of bed, and then he will have the option of having a few more throughout the day if he requires it.,3.  We will see about getting him set up with massage therapy and/or physical therapy as well for his back pain.,4.  For his sinuses, we will arrange for him to have saline nasal spray at the bedside for p.r.n. use.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is in with several medical problems.  He complains his mouth being sore since last week and also some "trouble with my eyes."  He states that they feel "funny" but he is seeing okay.  He denies any more diarrhea or abdominal pain.  Bowels are working okay.  He denies nausea or diarrhea.  Eating is okay.  He is emptying his bladder okay.  He denies dysuria.  His back is hurting worse.  He complains of right shoulder pain and neck pain over the last week but denies any injury.  He reports that his cough is about the same.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Metronidazole 250 mg q.i.d., Lortab 5/500 b.i.d., Allegra 180 mg daily, Levothroid 100 mcg daily, Lasix 20 mg daily, Flomax 0.4 mg at h.s., aspirin 81 mg daily, Celexa 40 mg daily, verapamil SR 180 mg one and a half tablet daily, Zetia 10 mg daily, Feosol b.i.d.,ALLERGIES: , Lamisil, Equagesic, Bactrim, Dilatrate, cyclobenzaprine.,OBJECTIVE:,General:  He is a well-developed, well-nourished, elderly male in no acute distress.,Vital Signs:  His age is 66.  Temperature:  97.7.  Blood pressure:  134/80.  Pulse:  88.  Weight:  201 pounds.,HEENT:  Head was normocephalic.  Examination of the throat reveals it to be clear.  He does have a few slight red patches on his upper inner lip consistent with yeast dermatitis.,Neck:  Supple without adenopathy or thyromegaly.,Lungs:  Clear.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm.,Extremities:  He has full range of motion of his shoulders but some tenderness to the trapezius over the right shoulder.  Back has limited range of motion.  He is nontender to his back.  Deep tendon reflexes are 2+ bilaterally in lower extremities.  Straight leg raising is positive for back pain on the right side at 90 degrees.,Abdomen:  Soft, nontender without hepatosplenomegaly or mass.  He has normal bowel sounds.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Clostridium difficile enteritis, improved.,2.  Right shoulder pain.,3.  Chronic low back pain.,4.  Yeast thrush.,5.  Coronary artery disease.,6.  Urinary retention, which is doing better.,PLAN:,  I put him on Diflucan 200 mg daily for seven days.  We will have him stop his metronidazole little earlier at his request.  He can drop it down to t.i.d. until Friday of this week and then finish Friday’s dose and then stop the metronidazole and that will be more than a 10-day course.  I ordered physical therapy to evaluate and treat his right shoulder and neck as indicated x 6 visits and he may see Dr. XYZ p.r.n. for his eye discomfort and his left eye pterygium which is noted on exam (minimal redness is noted to the conjunctiva on the left side but no mattering was seen.)  Recheck with me in two to three weeks.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient has recently had an admission for pneumonia with positive blood count.  She was treated with IV antibiotics and p.o. antibiotics; she improved on that.  She was at home and doing quite well for approximately 10 to 12 days when she came to the ER with a temperature of 102.  She was found to have strep.  She was treated with penicillin and sent home.  She returned about 8 o'clock after vomiting and a probable seizure.  Temperature was 104.5; she was lethargic after that.  She had an LP, which was unremarkable.  She had blood cultures, which have not grown anything.  The CSF has not grown anything at this point.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,  She is alert, recovering from anesthesia.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat are unremarkable.  Chest is clear to auscultation and percussion.  Abdomen is soft.  Extremities are unremarkable.,LAB STUDIES: , White count in the emergency room was 9.8 with a slight shift.  CSF glucose was 68, protein was 16, and there were no cells.  The Gram-stain was unremarkable.,ASSESSMENT: , I feel that this patient has a febrile seizure.,PLAN: , My plan is to readmit the patient to control her temperature and assess her white count.  I am going to observe her overnight.

SUBJECTIVE: , The patient has NG tube in place for decompression.  She says she is feeling a bit better.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,VITAL SIGNS:  She is afebrile.  Pulse is 58 and blood pressure is 110/56.,SKIN:  There is good skin turgor.,GENERAL:  She is not in acute distress.,CHEST:  Clear to auscultation.  There is good air movement bilaterally.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  First and second sounds are heard.  No murmurs appreciated.,ABDOMEN:  Less distended.  Bowel sounds are absent.,EXTREMITIES:  She has 3+ pedal swelling.,NEUROLOGICAL:  The patient is alert and oriented x3.  Examination is nonfocal.,LABORATORY DATA:,  White count is down from 20,000 to 12.5, hemoglobin is 12, hematocrit 37, and platelets 199,000.  Glucose is 157, BUN 14, creatinine 0.6, sodium is 131, potassium is 4.0, and CO2 is 31.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,1.  Small bowel obstruction/paralytic ileus, rule out obstipation.  Continue with less aggressive decompression.  Follow surgeon's recommendation.,2.  Pulmonary fibrosis, status post biopsy.  Manage as per pulmonologist.,3.  Leukocytosis, improving.  Continue current antibiotics.,4.  Bilateral pedal swelling.  Ultrasound of the lower extremity negative for DVT.,5.  Hyponatremia, improving.,6.  DVT prophylaxis.,7.  GI prophylaxis.

SUBJECTIVE:,  Overall, she has been doing well.  Her blood sugars have usually been less than or equal to 135 by home glucose monitoring.  Her fasting blood sugar today is 120 by our Accu-Chek.  She is exercising three times per week.  Review of systems is otherwise unremarkable. ,OBJECTIVE:,  Her blood pressure is 110/60.  Other vitals are stable.  HEENT:  Unremarkable.  Neck:  Unremarkable.  Lungs:  Clear.  Heart:  Regular.  Abdomen:  Unchanged.  Extremities:  Unchanged.  Neurologic:  Unchanged. ,ASSESSMENT:,  ,1.  NIDDM with improved control. ,2.  Hypertension. ,3.  Coronary artery disease status post coronary artery bypass graft. ,4.  Degenerative arthritis. ,5.  Hyperlipidemia. ,6.  Hyperuricemia. ,7.  Renal azotemia. ,8.  Anemia. ,9.  Fibroglandular breasts. ,PLAN:,  We will get follow-up labs today.  We will continue with current medications and treatment.  We will arrange for a follow-up mammogram as recommended by the radiologist in six months, which will be approximately Month DD, YYYY.  The patient is advised to proceed with previous recommendations.  She is to follow-up with Ophthalmology and Podiatry for diabetic evaluation and to return for follow-up as directed.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is an 89-year-old lady.  She actually turns 90 later this month, seen today for a short-term followup.  Actually, the main reasons we are seeing her back so soon which are elevated blood pressure and her right arm symptoms are basically resolved.  Blood pressure is better even though she is not currently on the higher dose Mavik likely recommended.  She apparently did not feel well with the higher dose, so she just went back to her previous dose of 1 mg daily.  She thinks, she also has an element of office hypertension.  Also, since she is on Mavik plus verapamil, she could switch over to the combined drug Tarka.  However, when we gave her samples of that she thought they were too big for her to swallow.  Basically, she is just back on her previous blood pressure regimen.  However, her blood pressure seems to be better today.  Her daughter says that they do check it periodically and it is similar to today’s reading.  Her right arm symptoms are basically resolved and she attributed that to her muscle problem back in the right shoulder blade.  We did do a C-spine and right shoulder x-ray and those just mainly showed some degenerative changes and possibly some rotator cuff injury with the humeral head quite high up in the glenoid in the right shoulder, but this does not seem to cause her any problems.  She has some vague “stomach problems”, although apparently it is improved when she stopped Aleve and she does not have any more aches or pains off Aleve.  She takes Tylenol p.r.n., which seems to be enough for her.  She does not think she has any acid reflux symptoms or heartburn.  She does take Tums t.i.d. and also Mylanta at night.  She has had dentures for many, many years and just recently I guess in the last few months, although she was somewhat vague on this, she has had some sores in her mouth.  They do heal up, but then she will get another one.  She also thinks since she has been on the Lexapro, she has somewhat of a tremor of her basically whole body at least upper body including the torso and arms and had all of the daughters who I not noticed to speak of and it is certainly difficult to tell her today that she has much tremor.  They do think the Lexapro has helped to some extent.,ALLERGIES: , None.,MEDICATION: , Verapamil 240 mg a day, Mavik 1 mg a day, Lipitor 10 mg one and half daily, vitamins daily, Ocuvite daily, Tums t.i.d., Tylenol 2-3 daily p.r.n., and Mylanta at night.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Mostly otherwise as above.,OBJECTIVE:,General:  She is a pleasant elderly lady.  She is in no acute distress, accompanied by daughter.,Vital signs:  Blood pressure:  128/82.  Pulse:  68.  Weight:  143 pounds.,HEENT:  No acute changes.  Atraumatic, normocephalic.  On mouth exam, she does have dentures.  She removed her upper denture.  I really do not see any sores at all.  Her mouth exam was unremarkable.,Neck:  No adenopathy, tenderness, JVD, bruits, or mass.,Lungs:  Clear.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm.,Extremities:  No significant edema.  Reasonable pulses.  No clubbing or cyanosis, may be just a minimal tremor in head and hands, but it is very subtle and hardly noticeable.  No other focal or neurological deficits grossly.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Hypertension, better reading today.,2.  Right arm symptoms, resolved.,3.  Depression probably somewhat improved with Lexapro and she will just continue that.  She only got up to the full dose 10 mg pill about a week ago and apparently some days does not need to take it.,4.  Perhaps a very subtle tremor.  I will just watch that.,5.  Osteoporosis.,6.  Osteoarthritis.,PLAN:,  I think I will just watch everything for now.  I would continue the Lexapro, we gave her more samples plus a prescription for the 20 mg that she can cut in half.  I offered to see her for again short-term followup.  However, they both preferred just to wait until the annual check up already set up for next April and they know they can call sooner.  She might get a flu shot here in the next few weeks.  Daughter mentioned here today that she thinks her mom is doing pretty well, especially given that she is turning 90 here later this month and I would tend to agree with that.

SUBJECTIVE: , This patient presents to the office today because he has not been feeling well.  He was in for a complete physical on 05/02/2008.  According to the chart, the patient gives a history of feeling bad for about two weeks.  At first he thought it was stress and anxiety and then he became worried it was something else.  He says he is having a lot of palpitations.  He gets a fluttering feeling in his chest.  He has been very tired over two weeks as well.  His job has been really getting to him.  He has been feeling nervous and anxious.  It seems like when he is feeling stressed he has more palpitations, sometimes they cause chest pain.  These symptoms are not triggered by exertion.  He had similar symptoms about 9 or 10 years ago.  At that time he went through a full workup.  Everything ended up being negative and they gave him something that he took for his nerves and he says that helped.  Unfortunately, he does not remember what it was.  Also over the last three days he has had some intestinal problems.  He has had some intermittent nausea and his stools have been loose.  He has been having some really funny green color to his bowel movements.  There has been no blood in the stool.  He is not having any abdominal pain, just some nausea.  He does not have much of an appetite.  He is a nonsmoker.,OBJECTIVE: , His weight today is 168.4 pounds, blood pressure 142/76, temperature 97.7, pulse 68, and respirations 16.  General exam:  The patient is nontoxic and in no acute distress.  There is no labored breathing.  Psychiatric:  He is alert and oriented times 3.  Ears:  Tympanic membranes pearly gray bilaterally.  Mouth:  No erythema, ulcers, vesicles, or exudate noted.  Eyes:  Pupils equal, round, and reactive to light bilaterally.  Neck is supple.  No lymphadenopathy.  Lungs:  Clear to auscultation.  No rales, rhonchi, or wheezing.  Cardiac:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur.  Extremities:  No edema, cyanosis, or clubbing.,ASSESSMENT:  ,1.  Palpitations, possibly related to anxiety.,2.  Fatigue.,3.  Loose stools with some green color and also some nausea.  There has been no vomiting, possibly a touch of gastroenteritis going on here.,PLAN: , The patient admits he has been putting this off now for about two weeks.  He says his work is definitely contributing to some of his symptoms and he feels stressed.  He is leaving for a vacation very soon.  Unfortunately, he is actually leaving Wednesday for XYZ, which puts us into a bit of a bind in terms of doing testing on him.  My overall opinion is he has some anxiety related issues and he may also have a touch of gastroenteritis.  A 12-lead EKG was performed on him in the office today.  This EKG was compared with the previous EKG contained in the chart from 2006 and I see that these EKGs look very similar with no significant changes noted, which is definitely a good news.  I am going to send him to the lab from our office to get the following tests done:  Comprehensive metabolic profile, CBC, urinalysis with reflex to culture and we will also get a chest X-ray.  Tomorrow morning I will manage to schedule him for an exercise stress test at Bad Axe Hospital.  We were able to squeeze him in.  His appointment is at 8:15 in the morning.  He is going to have the stress test done in the morning and he will come back to the office in the afternoon for recheck.  I am not going to be here so he is going to see Dr. X.  Dr. X should hopefully be able to call over and speak with the physician who attended the stress test and get a preliminary result before he leaves for XYZ.  Certainly, if something comes up we may need to postpone his trip.  We petitioned his medical records from his former physician and with luck we will be able to find out what medication he was on about nine or ten years ago.  In the meantime I have given him Ativan 0.5 mg one tablet two to three times a day as needed for anxiety.  I talked about Ativan, how it works.  I talked about the side effects.  I told him to use it only as needed and we can see how he is doing tomorrow when he comes back for his recheck.  I took him off of work today and tomorrow so he could rest.

SUBJECTIVE:,

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 44-year-old white female who is here today with multiple problems.  The biggest concern she has today is her that left leg has been swollen.  It is swollen for three years to some extent, but worse for the past two to three months.  It gets better in the morning when she is up, but then through the day it begins to swell again.  Lately it is staying bigger and she somewhat uncomfortable with it being so large.  The right leg also swells, but not nearly like the left leg.  The other problem she had was she has had pain in her shoulder and back.  These occurred about a year ago, but the pain in her left shoulder is of most concern to her.  She feels like the low back pain is just a result of a poor mattress.  She does not remember hurting her shoulder, but she said gradually she has lost some mobility.  It is hard time to get her hands behind her back or behind her head.  She has lost strength in the left shoulder.  As far as the blood count goes, she had an elevated white count.  In April of 2005, Dr. XYZ had asked Dr. XYZ to see her because of the persistent leukocytosis; however, Dr. XYZ felt that this was not a problem for the patient and asked her to just return here for follow up.  She also complains of a lot of frequency with urination and nocturia times two to three.  She has gained weight; she thinks about 12 pounds since March.  She now weighs 284.  Fortunately, her blood pressure is staying stable.  She takes atenolol 12.5 mg per day and takes Lasix on a p.r.n. basis, but does not like to take it because it causes her to urinate so much.  She denies chest pain, but she does feel like she is becoming gradually more short of breath.  She works for the city of Wichita as bus dispatcher, so she does sit a lot, and just really does not move around much.  Towards the end of the day her leg was really swollen.  I reviewed her lab work.  Other than the blood count her lab work has been pretty normal, but she does need to have a cholesterol check.,OBJECTIVE:,General:  The patient is a very pleasant 44-year-old white female quite obese.,Vital Signs:  Blood pressure:  122/70.  Temperature:  98.6.,HEENT:  Head:  Normocephalic.  Ears:  TMs intact.  Eyes:  Pupils round, and equal.  Nose:  Mucosa normal.  Throat:  Mucosa normal.,Lungs:  Clear.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm.,Abdomen:  Soft and obese.,Extremities:  A lot of fluid in both legs, but especially the left leg is really swollen.  At least 2+ pedal edema.  The right leg just has a trace of edema.  She has pain in her low back with range of motion.  She has a lot of pain in her left shoulder with range of motion.  It is hard for her to get her hand behind her back.  She cannot get it up behind her head.  She has pain in the anterior left shoulder in that area.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Multiple problems including left leg swelling.,2.  History of leukocytosis.,3.  Joint pain involving the left shoulder, probably impingement syndrome.,4.  Low back pain, chronic with obesity.,5.  Obesity.,6.  Frequency with urination.,7.  Tobacco abuse.,PLAN:,1.  I will schedule for a venous Doppler of the left leg and will have her come back in the morning for a CBC and a metabolic panel.  We will start her on Detrol 0.4 mg one daily and also started on Mobic 15 mg per day.,2.  Elevate her leg as much as possible and wear support hose if possible.  Keep her foot up during the day.  We will see her back in two weeks.  We will have the results of the Doppler, the lab work and see how she is doing with the Detrol and the joint pain.  If her shoulder pain is not any better, we probably should refer her on over to orthopedist.  We did do x-rays of her shoulder today that did not show anything remarkable.  See her in two weeks or p.r.n.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This 3-year-old male is brought by his mother with concerns about his eating.  He has become a very particular eater, and not eating very much in general.  However, her primary concern was he was vomiting sometimes after particular foods.  They had noted that when he would eat raw carrots, within 5 to 10 minutes he would complain that his stomach hurt and then vomit.  After this occurred several times, they stopped giving him carrots.  Last week, he ate some celery and the same thing happened.  They had not given him any of that since.  He eats other foods without any apparent pain or vomiting.  Bowel movements are normal.  He does have a history of reactive airway disease, intermittently.  He is not diagnosed with intrinsic asthma at this time and takes no medication regularly.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  He is on no medications.,ALLERGIES: , He has no known medicine allergies.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital Signs:  Weight:  31.5 pounds, which is an increase of 2.5 pounds since May.  Temperature is 97.1.  He certainly appears in no distress.  He is quite interested in looking at his books.,Neck:  Supple without adenopathy.,Lungs:  Clear.,Cardiac:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmurs.,Abdomen:  Soft without organomegaly, masses, or tenderness.,ASSESSMENT:,  Report of vomiting and abdominal pain after eating raw carrots and celery.  Etiology of this is unknown.,PLAN:,  I talked with mother about this.  Certainly, it does not suggest any kind of an allergic reaction, nor obstruction.  At this time, they will simply avoid those foods.  In the future, they may certainly try those again and see how he tolerates those.  I did encourage a wide variety of fruits and vegetables in his diet as a general principle.  If worsening symptoms, she is welcome to contact me again for reevaluation.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 7-year-old male who comes in today with a three-day history of emesis and a four-day history of diarrhea.  Apparently, his brother had similar symptoms.  They had eaten some chicken and then ate some more of it the next day, and I could not quite understand what the problem was because there is a little bit of language barrier, although dad was trying very hard to explain to me what had happened.  But any way, after he and his brother got done eating with chicken, they both felt bad and have continued to feel bad.  The patient has had diarrhea five to six times a day for the last four days and then he had emesis pretty frequently three days ago and then has just had a couple of it each day in the last two days.  He has not had any emesis today.  He has urinated this morning.  His parents are both concerned because he had a fever of 103 last night.  Also, he ate half of a hamburger yesterday and he tried drinking some milk and that is when he had an emesis.  He has been drinking Pedialyte, Gatorade, white grape juice, and 7Up, otherwise he has not been eating anything.,MEDICATIONS:  ,None.,ALLERGIES:  ,He has no known drug allergies.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Negative as far as sore throat, earache, or cough.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,General:  He is awake and alert, no acute distress.,Vital Signs:  Blood pressure:  106/75.  Temperature:  99.  Pulse:  112.  Weight is 54 pounds.,HEENT:  His TMs are normal bilaterally.  Posterior pharynx is unremarkable.,Neck:  Without adenopathy or thyromegaly.,Lungs:  Clear to auscultation.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur.,Abdomen:  Benign.,Skin:  Turgor is intact.  His capillary refill is less than 3 seconds.,LABORATORY: , White blood cell count is 5.3 with 69 segs, 15 lymphs, and 13 monos.  His platelet count on his CBC is 215.,ASSESSMENT:,  Viral gastroenteritis.,PLAN:,  The parents did point out to me a rash that he had on his buttock.  There were some small almost pinpoint erythematous patches of papules that have a scab on them.  I did not see any evidence of petechiae.  Therefore, I just reassured them that this is a viral gastroenteritis.  I recommended that they stop giving him juice and just go with the Gatorade and water.  He is to stay away from milk products until his diarrhea and stomach upset have calmed down.  We talked about BRAT diet and slowly advancing his diet as he tolerates.  They have used some Kaopectate, which did not really help with the diarrhea.  Otherwise follow up as needed.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 62-year-old white female with multiple chronic problems including hypertension and a lipometabolism disorder.  She follows with Dr. XYZ on her hypertension, as well as myself.  She continues to gain weight.  Diabetes is therefore a major concern.  In fact, her dad had diabetes and she has a brother who has diabetes.  The patient also has several additional concerns she brings up today.  One is that her left knee continues to bother her and it hurts.  She cannot really isolate where the pain is, it just seems to hurt through her knee.  She has had this for some time now and in fact as we reviewed her records, her left knee has been x-rayed in 1999.  There was some minimal narrowing of the weightbearing joint with some minor hypertrophic spurring medially.  She would like to have this x-rayed again today.  She is certainly not interested in any surgery.  She has noted that it particularly hurts to kneel.  In addition, she complains of her stools being a baby-yellow.  She has rectal bleeding off and on.  It is bright red.  She had a colonoscopy done in 1999.  She does have a family history of colon cancer questionable in her mother, who is deceased.  She complains of some diffuse abdominal pain off and on.  She has given up fast foods and her pop and this has not seemed to help.  She does admit however, that she is not eating right.  Sometimes her stools are hard.  Sometimes they are runny.  The blood does not really seem to be related to necessarily a hard stool.  It is always bright red and will sometimes drip into the toilet.  Over the last couple of days, she had also been sneezing and has had an itchy throat.  She tried some Claritin and this did not help.  She has had some body aches.  She is finally feeling better today with this.  She also is questioning whether she has some sleep apnea.  She will awaken suddenly in the middle of the night.  She was told that she does snore.  She does not smoke.  As stated, she has gained significant weight.,GYNECOLOGICAL HISTORY: , She does not bleed.  She has both ovaries, as well as her uterus and cervix.  She is on no hormonal therapy.,PREVENTATIVE HISTORY:,  She is not exercising.  She does not do self breast examinations.  She has recently had her mammogram and it was unremarkable.  She does take her low-dose aspirin daily as well as her multivitamin.  She does wear her seatbelt.  As previously noted, she does not smoke or drink alcohol.,PAST MEDICAL, FAMILY AND SOCIAL HISTORY:,  Per health summary sheet, unchanged.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Unremarkable with the exception of that above. ,ALLERGIES: , No known drug allergies.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Benicar 20 mg daily; multivitamin; glucosamine; vitamin B complex; vitamin E and a low-dose aspirin.,OBJECTIVE:,General:  Well-nourished, well-developed, a very pleasant 61-year-old in no acute distress.,Vitals:  Her weight today is 246 pounds.  In March of 2002 she weighed 231 pounds.  In March 2001 she weighed 203 pounds.  Her blood pressure is 160/78.  Pulse is 84.  Respiratory rate of 20.  She is afebrile.,HEENT:  Head is of normocephalic, atraumatic.  PERLA.  Conjunctivae clear.  TMs are unremarkable and canals are patent.  Nasal mucosa is slightly reddened.  Nares are patent.  Throat shows some clear posterior pharyngeal drainage.  Throat is slightly reddened.  Non-exudative.  No oral lesions or dental caries noted.,Neck:  Supple, No adenopathy.  Thyroid without any nodules or enlargements, no JVD or carotid bruits.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmurs, clicks or rubs.  PMI is nondisplaced.,Lungs:  Clear to A&P.  No CVA tenderness.,Breast exam:  Negative for any axillary nodes, skin changes, discrete nodules or nipple discharge.  Breasts were examined both lying and sitting.,Abdomen:  Soft, nondistended, normoactive bowel sounds, no hepatosplenomegaly or masses.  Non tender.,Pelvic exam:  BUS unremarkable.  Speculum exam shows normal physiologic discharge.  There are some atrophic vaginal changes.  Cervix visualized, no gross abnormalities.  Pap smear obtained.  Bimanual is negative for any adnexal masses or tenderness.  Rectal exam is negative for any adnexal masses or tenderness.  No rectal masses.  She does have some external hemorrhoids, none of which are inflamed at this time.  No palpable rectal masses.,Neuromusculoskeletal exam:  Cranial nerves II-XII are grossly intact.  No cerebellar signs are noted.  No evidence of a gait disturbance.  DTRs are 1+/4+ and equal throughout.  Good uptoeing.  Skin:  Inspection of her skin, subcuticular tissues negative for any concerning skin lesions, rashes or subcuticular masses.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Weight-gain.,2.  Hypertension.,3.  Lipometabolism disorder.,4.  Rectal bleeding.,5.  Left knee pain.,6.  Question of sleep apnea.,7.  Upper respiratory infection, improving.,8.  Gynecological examination is unremarkable for her age.,PLAN:,  We discussed at length, the issue of sleep apnea and its negative sequela.  I have recommended that she be referred for a sleep study.  She is certainly at risk for sleep apnea.  She refuses this.  I do not think that her upper respiratory tract infection needs any further treatment at this time since she is feeling better.  I did x-ray her knee and with the exception of some degenerative changes, it was unremarkable.  I reviewed this with her.  I do think that since she is having rectal bleeding, while this is not real unusual for her, with her family history of colon cancer, I am going to have her discuss this further with Dr. XYZ and leave further studies up to them.  I will dictate Dr. XYZ a note.  I am not going to order any further studies at this time in terms of her yellow stools and right upper quadrant discomfort.  She has had a gallbladder sonogram done in the past, this has been unremarkable and these symptoms really have not changed for her.  This however, has been some time ago.  I suspect she has an element of irritable bowel syndrome.  I have strongly encouraged weight reduction, both through diet and exercise.  I would like to see her back in the office in six months.  I did retake her blood pressure today and it was 130/70.  She is fasting this morning, so we will get a fasting blood sugar, chem-12, lipid profile, and CPK.  I will her mail the results.  I have strongly encouraged medication management if her lipids are elevated.  I think she is amenable to this.  Her DEXA scan is up to date having been done on 04/09/03.  I do not recommend one this year.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is in complaining of headaches and dizzy spells, as well as a new little rash on the medial right calf.  She describes her dizziness as both vertigo and lightheadedness.  She does not have a headache at present but has some intermittent headaches, neck pains, and generalized myalgias.  She has noticed a few more bruises on her legs.  No fever or chills with slight cough.  She has had more chest pains but not at present.  She does have a little bit of nausea but no vomiting or diarrhea.  She complains of some left shoulder tenderness and discomfort.  She reports her blood sugar today after lunch was 155.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  She is currently on her nystatin ointment to her lips q.i.d. p.r.n.  She is still using a triamcinolone 0.1% cream t.i.d. to her left wrist rash and her Bactroban ointment t.i.d. p.r.n. to her bug bites on her legs.  Her other meds remain as per the dictation of 07/30/2004 with the exception of her Klonopin dose being 4 mg in a.m. and 6 mg at h.s. instead of what the psychiatrist had recommended which should be 6 mg and 8 mg.,ALLERGIES: , Sulfa, erythromycin, Macrodantin, and tramadol.,OBJECTIVE:,General:  She is a well-developed, well-nourished, obese female in no acute distress.,Vital Signs:  Her age is 55.  Temperature:  98.2.  Blood pressure:  110/70.  Pulse:  72.  Weight:  174 pounds.,HEENT:  Head was normocephalic.  Throat:  Clear.  TMs clear.,Neck:  Supple without adenopathy.,Lungs:  Clear.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur.,Abdomen:  Soft, nontender without hepatosplenomegaly or mass.,Extremities:  Trace of ankle edema but no calf tenderness x 2 in lower extremities is noted.  Her shoulders have full range of motion.  She has minimal tenderness to the left shoulder anteriorly.,Skin:  There is bit of an erythematous rash to the left wrist which seems to be clearing with triamcinolone and her rash around her lips seems to be clearing nicely with her nystatin.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Headaches.,2.  Dizziness.,3.  Atypical chest pains.,4.  Chronic renal failure.,5.  Type II diabetes.,6.  Myalgias.,7.  Severe anxiety (affect is still quite anxious.),PLAN:,  I strongly encouraged her to increase her Klonopin to what the psychiatrist recommended, which should be 6 mg in the a.m. and 8 mg in the p.m.  I sent her to lab for CPK due to her myalgias and pro-time for monitoring her Coumadin.  Recheck in one week.  I think her dizziness is multifactorial and due to enlarged part of her anxiety.  I do note that she does have a few new bruises on her extremities, which is likely due to her Coumadin.

SUBJECTIVE: , The patient states she is feeling a bit better.,OBJECTIVE:,VITAL SIGNS:  Temperature is 95.4.  Highest temperature recorded over the past 24 hours is 102.1.,CHEST:  Examination of the chest is clear to auscultation.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  First and second heart sounds were heard.  No murmurs appreciated.,ABDOMEN:  Benign.  Right renal angle is tender.  Bowel sounds are positive.,EXTREMITIES:  There is no swelling.,NEUROLOGIC:  The patient is alert and oriented x3.  Examination is nonfocal.,LABORATORY DATA: , White count is down from 35,000 to 15.5.  Hemoglobin is 9.5, hematocrit is 30, and platelets are 269,000.  BUN is down to 22, creatinine is within normal limits.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,1.  Sepsis due to urinary tract infection.  Urine culture shows Escherichia coli, resistant to Levaquin.  We changed to doripenem.,2.  Urinary tract infection, we will treat with doripenem, change Foley catheter,3.  Hypotension.  Resolved, continue intravenous fluids.,4.  Ischemic cardiomyopathy.  No evidence of decompensation, we with monitor.,5.  Diabetes type 2.  Uncontrolled.  Continue insulin sliding scale.,6.  Recent pulmonary embolism, INR is above therapeutic range, Coumadin is on hold, we will monitor.,7.  History of coronary artery disease.  Troponin indeterminate.  Cardiologist intends no further workup.  Continue medical treatment.  Most likely troponin is secondary to impaired clearance.

SUBJECTIVE: , The patient was seen and examined.  He feels much better today, improved weakness and decreased muscular pain.  No other complaints.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,GENERAL:  Not in acute distress, awake, alert and oriented x3.,VITAL SIGNS:  Blood pressure 147/68, heart rate 82, respiratory rate 20, temperature 97.7, O2 saturation 99% on 3 L.,HEENT:  NC/T, PERRLA, EOMI.,NECK:  Supple.,HEART: Regular rate and rhythm.,RESPIRATORY:  Clear bilateral.,ABDOMEN:  Soft and nontender.,EXTREMITIES:  No edema.  Pulses present bilateral.,LABORATORY DATA: , Total CK coming down 70,142 from 25,573, total CK is 200, troponin is 2.3 from 1.9 yesterday.,BNP, blood sugar 93, BUN of 55.7, creatinine 2.7, sodium 137, potassium 3.9, chloride 108, and CO2 of 22.,Liver function test, AST 704, ALT 298, alkaline phosphatase 67, total bilirubin 0.3.  CBC, WBC count 9.1, hemoglobin 9.9, hematocrit 29.2, and platelet count 204.  Blood cultures are still pending.,Ultrasound of abdomen, negative abdomen, both kidneys were echogenic, cortices suggesting chronic medical renal disease.  Doppler of lower extremities negative for DVT., ,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,1.  Rhabdomyolysis, most likely secondary to statins, gemfibrozil, discontinue it on admission.  Continue IV fluids.  We will monitor.,2.  Acute on chronic renal failure.  We will follow up with Nephrology recommendation.,3.  Anemia, drop in hemoglobin most likely hemodilutional.  Repeat CBC in a.m.,4.  Leukocytosis, improving.,5.  Elevated liver enzyme, most likely secondary to rhabdomyolysis.  The patient denies any abdominal pain and ultrasound is unremarkable.,6.  Hypertension.  Blood pressure controlled.,7.  Elevated cardiac enzyme, follow up with Cardiology recommendation.,8.  Obesity.,9.  Deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis.  Continue Lovenox 40 mg subcu daily.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This 32-year-old female comes in again still having not got a primary care physician.  She said she was at Dr. XYZ office today for her appointment, and they cancelled her appointment because she has not gotten her Project Access insurance into affect.  She says that Project Access is trying to find her a doctor.  She is not currently on Project Access, and so she is here to get something for the pain in her foot.  I did notice that she went in to see Dr. XYZ for a primary care physician on 05/14/2004.  She said she does not have a primary care physician.  She was in here just last week and saw Dr. XYZ for back pain and was put on pain medicines and muscle relaxers.  She has been in here multiple times for different kinds of pain.  This pain she is having is in her foot.  She had surgery on it, and she has plates and screws.  She said she was suppose to see Dr. XYZ about getting some of the hardware out of it.  The appointment was cancelled, and that is why she came here.  It started hurting a lot yesterday, but she had this previous appointment with Dr. XYZ so she thought she would take care of it there, but they would not see her.  She did not injure her foot in any way recently.  It is chronically painful.  Every time she does very much exercise it hurts more.  We have x-rayed it in the past.  She has some hardware there.  It does not appear to be grossly abnormal or causing any loosening or problems on x-ray.,PHYSICAL EXAM: , Examination of her foot shows some well-healed surgical scars.  On the top of her foot she has two, and then on the lateral aspect below her ankle she has a long scar.  They are all old, and the surgery was done over a year ago.  She is walking with a very slight limp.  There is no redness.  No heat.  No swelling of the foot or the ankle.  It is mildly tender around the medial side of the foot just inferior to the medial malleolus.  It is not warm or red.,ASSESSMENT:,  Foot pain.,PLAN:,  She has been in here before.  She seems very pleasant.  Thought maybe she certainly might be having some significant pain, so I gave her some Lortab 7.5 to take with a refill.  After she left, I got to thinking about it and looked into her record.  She has been in here multiple times for pain medicine.  She has a primary care physician, and now she is telling us she does not have a primary care physician even though she had seen Dr. XYZ not too long ago.  We called Dr. XYZ office.  Dr. XYZ nurse said that the patient did not have an appointment today.  She has an appointment on June 15, 2004, for a postop check.  They did not tell her they would not see her today because of insurance, so the patient was lying to me.  We will keep that in mind the next time she returns, because she will likely be back.  She did say that Project Access will be approving her insurance next week, so she will be able to see Dr. XYZ soon.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient states that he feels sick and weak.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,VITAL SIGNS:  Highest temperature recorded over the past 24 hours was 101.1, and current temperature is 99.2.,GENERAL:  The patient looks tired.,HEENT:  Oral mucosa is dry.,CHEST:  Clear to auscultation.  He states that he has a mild cough, not productive.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  First and second heart sounds were heard.  No murmur was appreciated.,ABDOMEN:  Soft and nontender.  Bowel sounds are positive. Murphy's sign is negative.,EXTREMITIES:  There is no swelling.,NEURO:  The patient is alert and oriented x 3.  Examination is nonfocal.,LABORATORY DATA: , White count is normal at 6.8, hemoglobin is 15.8, and platelets 257,000.  Glucose is in the low 100s.  Comprehensive metabolic panel is unremarkable.  UA is negative for infection.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,1.  Fever of undetermined origin, probably viral since white count is normal.  Would continue current antibiotics empirically.,2.  Dehydration.  Hydrate the patient.,3.  Prostatic hypertrophy.  Urologist, Dr. X.,4.  DVT prophylaxis with subcutaneous heparin.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 66-year-old female who presents to the clinic today for a five-month recheck on her type II diabetes mellitus, as well as hypertension.  While here she had a couple of other issues as well.  She stated that she has been having some right shoulder pain.  She denies any injury but certain range of motion does cause it to hurt.  No weakness, numbness or tingling.  As far as her diabetes she states that she only checks her blood sugars in the morning and those have all been ranging less than 100.  She has not been checking any two hours after meals.  Her blood pressures when she does check them have been running normal as well but she does not have any record of these present with her.  No other issues or concerns.  Upon review of her chart it did show that she had a benign breast biopsy done back on 06/11/04 and was told to have a repeat mammogram in six months but she has never had that done so she is needing to have this done as well.,ALLERGIES: , None.,MEDICATIONS:,  She is on Hyzaar 50/12.5 one-half p.o. daily, coated aspirin daily, lovastatin 40 mg one-half tab p.o. daily, multivitamin daily, metformin 500 mg one tab p.o. b.i.d.; however, she has been skipping her second dose during the day.,SOCIAL HISTORY:,  She is a nonsmoker.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  As noted above.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital Signs:  Temperature:  98.2.  Pulse:  64.  Respirations:  16.  Blood pressure:  110/56.  Weight:  169.,General:  Alert and oriented x 3.  No acute distress noted.,Neck:  No lymphadenopathy, thyromegaly, JVD or bruits.,Lungs:  Clear to auscultation.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur or gallops present.,Breasts:  Exam performed with a female nurse present.  The breasts do have some scars present underneath them bilaterally from prior breast reduction surgery.  There is no axillary adenopathy or tenderness.  Breasts appear to be symmetric.  There was no nipple discharge or retraction.  No breast tissue retraction noted in either the sitting or the supine position.  Upon palpation there were no palpable lumps or bumps and no palpable discharge.,Musculoskeletal:  She did have full range of motion of her shoulders.  She did have tenderness upon palpation over the right bicipital tendon.  There is no swelling, crepitus or discoloration noted.,MEDICAL DECISION MAKING:  Most recent hemoglobin A1c was 5.6% back in October 2004.  Most recent lipid checks were obtained back in July 2004.  We have not had this checked since that time.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Type II diabetes mellitus.,2.  Hypertension.,3.  Right shoulder pain.,4.  Hyperlipidemia.,PLAN:,1.  She is going to go to lab to obtain a hemoglobin A1c, BMP, lipids, CPK, liver enzymes and quantitative microalbumin.,2.  We are going to set her up for a diagnostic bilateral mammogram due to a history of abnormal mammogram in the past which subsequently showed a benign breast cyst.,3.  I told her for her shoulder to take ibuprofen 600 mg three times daily with her meals for a minimum of the next one week.,4.  She is going to follow up in the clinic in three months for a complete comprehensive examination.  If any questions, concerns or problems arise between now and then she should let us know.

SUBJECTIVE:,  Grandfather brings the patient in today because of headaches, mostly in her face.  She is feeling pressure there with a lot of sniffles.  Last night, she complained of sore throat and a loose cough.  Over the last three days, she has had a rash on her face, back and arms.  A lot of fifth disease at school.  She says it itches and they have been doing some Benadryl for this.  She has not had any wheezing lately and is not taking any ongoing medications for her asthma.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Asthma and allergies.,FAMILY HISTORY:  ,Sister is dizzy but no other acute illnesses.,OBJECTIVE:,General:  The patient is an 11-year-old female.  Alert and cooperative.  No acute distress.,Neck:  Supple without adenopathy.,HEENT:  Ear canals clear.  TMs, bilaterally, gray in color and good light reflex.  Oropharynx is pink and moist.  No erythema or exudates.  She has postnasal discharge.  Nares are swollen and red.  Purulent discharge in the posterior turbinates.  Both maxillary sinuses are tender.  She has some mild tenderness in the left frontal sinus.  Eyes are puffy and she has dark circles.,Chest:  Respirations are regular and nonlabored.,Lungs:  Clear to auscultation throughout.,Heart:  Regular rhythm without murmur.,Skin:  Warm, dry and pink.  Moist mucous membranes.  Red, lacey rash from the wrists to the elbows, both sides.  It is very faint on the lower back and she has reddened cheeks, as well.,ASSESSMENT:,  Fifth disease with sinusitis.,PLAN:,  Omnicef 300 mg daily for 10 days.  May use some Zyrtec for the itching.  Samples are given.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a 56-year-old female who comes in for a dietary consultation for hyperlipidemia, hypertension, gastroesophageal reflux disease and weight reduction.  The patient states that her husband has been diagnosed with high blood cholesterol as well.  She wants some support with some dietary recommendations to assist both of them in healthier eating.  The two of them live alone now, and she is used to cooking for large portions.  She is having a hard time adjusting to preparing food for the two of them.  She would like to do less food preparation, in fact.  She is starting a new job this week.,OBJECTIVE:,  Her reported height is 5 feet 4 inches.  Today’s weight was 170 pounds.  BMI is approximately 29.  A diet history was obtained.  I instructed the patient on a 1200 calorie meal plan emphasizing low-saturated fat sources with moderate amounts of sodium as well.  Information on fast food eating was supplied, and additional information on low-fat eating was also supplied.,ASSESSMENT:,  The patient’s basal energy expenditure is estimated at 1361 calories a day.  Her total calorie requirement for weight maintenance is estimated at 1759 calories a day.  Her diet history reflects that she is making some very healthy food choices on a regular basis.  She does emphasize a lot of fruits and vegetables, trying to get a fruit or a vegetable or both at most meals.  She also is emphasizing lower fat selections.  Her physical activity level is moderate at this time.  She is currently walking for 20 minutes four or five days out of the week but at a very moderate pace with a friend.  We reviewed the efforts at weight reduction identifying 3500 calories in a pound of body fat and the need to gradually and slowly chip away at this number on a long-term basis for weight reduction.  We discussed the need to reduce calories from what her current patterns are and to hopefully increase physical activity slightly as well.  We discussed menu selection, as well as food preparation techniques.  The patient appears to have been influenced by the current low-carb, high-protein craze and had really limited her food selections based on that.  I was able to give her some more room for variety including some moderate portions of potatoes, pasta and even on occasion breading her meat as long as she prepares it in a low-fat fashion which was discussed.,PLAN:,  Recommend the patient increase the intensity and the duration of her physical activity with a goal of 30 minutes five days a week working at a brisk walk.  Recommend the patient reduce calories by 500 daily to support a weight loss of one pound a week.  This translates into a 1200-calorie meal plan.  I encouraged the patient to keep food records in order to better track calories consumed.  I recommended low fat selections and especially those that are lower in saturated fats.  Emphasis would be placed on moderating portions of meat and having more moderate snacks between meals as well.  This was a one-hour consultation.  I provided my name and number should additional needs arise.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This 46-year-old white male with Down’s syndrome presents with his mother for followup of hypothyroidism, as well as onychomycosis.  He has finished six weeks of Lamisil without any problems.  He is due to have an ALT check today.  At his appointment in April, I also found that he was hypothyroid with elevated TSH.  He was started on Levothroid 0.1 mg and has been taking that daily.  We will recheck a TSH today as well.  His mother notes that although he does not like to take the medications, he is taking it with encouragement.  His only other medications are some eyedrops for his cornea.,OBJECTIVE:,  Weight was 149 pounds, which is up 2 pounds.  Blood pressure was 120/80.  Pulse is 80 and regular.,Neck:  Supple without adenopathy.  No thyromegaly or nodules were palpable.,Cardiac:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmurs.,Skin:  Examination of the toenails showed really no change yet.  They are still quite thickened and yellowed.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Down’s syndrome.,2.  Onychomycosis.,3.  Hypothyroidism.,PLAN:,1.  Recheck ALT and TSH today and call results.,2.  Lamisil 250 mg #30 one p.o. daily with one refill.  They will complete the next eight weeks of therapy as long as the ALT is normal.  I again reviewed the symptoms of liver dysfunction.,3.  Continue Levothroid 0.1 mg daily unless dosage need to be adjusted based on the TSH.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a followup dietary consultation for hyperlipidemia, hypertension, and possible metabolic syndrome.  The patient reports that she has worked hard for a number of weeks following the meal plan prescribed, but felt like she was gaining weight and not losing weight on it.  She is not sure that she was following it accurately.  She is trying to walk 1-1/2 to 2 miles every other day, but is increasing her time in the garden and doing other yard work as well.  Once she started experiencing some weight gain, she went back to her old South Beach Diet and felt like she was able to take some of that weight off.  However she realizes that the South Beach Diet is not a healthy diet for her and so is coming back for better instruction on safe weight loss and low-fat eating.,OBJECTIVE:,  Weight is 275 pounds.  Food records were reviewed.,ASSESSMENT:,  The patient experienced a weight gain of 2 pounds since our last consultation which was two months ago.  I did carefully review her food records and evaluated calories consumed.  While she was carefully tracking the volume of protein and carbohydrates, she was getting some excess calories from the fatty proteins selected.  Thus we rearranged her meal plan a little bit and talked about how to track her fat calories as well.  She was more open to reducing the amount of protein from the previous meal plan and increasing slightly the amount of carbohydrates.  While this still is not as much carbohydrate as I would normally recommend, I am certainly willing to work with her on how she feels her body best handles weight reduction.  We also discussed a snack that could be eliminated in the morning because she really is not hungry at that time.,PLAN:,  A new 1500 calorie meal plan was developed based on 35% of the calories coming from protein, 40% of the calories from carbohydrate, and 25% of the calories from fat.  This translates in to 10 servings at 15 grams a piece of carbohydrates throughout the day dividing them in to groups of two servings per meal and per snack.  This also translates in to 2 ounces of protein at breakfast, 6 ounces at lunch, 2 ounces in the afternoon snack, 6 ounces at supper, and 2 ounces in the evening snack.  We have eliminated the morning snack.  The patient will now track the grams of fat in her meats as well as added fats.  Her goal for total fats over the course of the day is no more than 42 grams of fat per day.  This was a half hour consultation.  We will plan to see the patient back in one month for support.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is brought in by an assistant with some of his food diary sheets.  They wonder if the patient needs to lose anymore weight.,OBJECTIVE:,  The patient's weight today is 186-1/2 pounds, which is down 1-1/2 pounds in the past month.  He has lost a total of 34-1/2 pounds.  I praised this.  I went over his food diary and praised all of his positive food choices reported, especially his use of sugar-free Kool-Aid, sugar-free pudding, and diet pop.  I encouraged him to continue all of that, as well as his regular physical activity.,ASSESSMENT:,  The patient is losing weight at an acceptable rate.  He needs to continue keeping a food diary and his regular physical activity.,PLAN:,  The patient plans to see Dr. XYZ at the end of May 2005.  I recommended that they ask Dr. XYZ what weight he would like for the patient to be at.  Follow up will be with me June 13, 2005.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a 38-year-old female who comes for dietary consultation for gestational diabetes.  Patient reports that she is scared to eat because of its impact on her blood sugars.  She is actually trying not to eat while she is working third shift at Wal-Mart.  Historically however, she likes to eat out with a high frequency.  She enjoys eating rice as part of her meals.  She is complaining of feeling fatigued and tired all the time because she works from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m. at Wal-Mart and has young children at home.  She sleeps two to four hours at a time throughout the day.  She has been testing for ketones first thing in the morning when she gets home from work.,OBJECTIVE:,  Today's weight:  155.5 pounds.  Weight from 10/07/04 was 156.7 pounds.  A diet history was obtained.  Blood sugar records for the last three days reveal the following:  fasting blood sugars 83, 84, 87, 77; two-hour postprandial breakfast 116, 107, 97; pre-lunch 85, 108, 77; two-hour postprandial lunch 86, 131, 100; pre-supper 78, 91, 100; two-hour postprandial supper 125, 121, 161; bedtime 104, 90 and 88.  I instructed the patient on dietary guidelines for gestational diabetes.  The Lily Guide for Meal Planning was provided and reviewed.  Additional information on gestational diabetes was applied.  A sample 2000-calorie meal plan was provided with a carbohydrate budget established.,ASSESSMENT:,  Patient's basal energy expenditure adjusted for obesity is estimated at 1336 calories a day.  Her total calorie requirements, including a physical activity factor as well as additional calories for pregnancy, totals to 2036 calories per day.  Her diet history reveals that she has somewhat irregular eating patterns.  In the last 24 hours when she was working at Wal-Mart, she ate at 5 a.m. but did not eat anything prior to that since starting work at 10 p.m.  We discussed the need for small frequent eating.  We identified carbohydrate as the food source that contributes to the blood glucose response.  We identified carbohydrate sources in the food supply, recognizing that they are all good for her.  The only carbohydrates she was asked to entirely avoid would be the concentrated forms of refined sugars.  In regard to use of her traditional foods of rice, I pulled out a one-third cup measuring cup to identify a 15-gram equivalent of rice.  We discussed the need for moderating the portion of carbohydrates consumed at one given time.  Emphasis was placed at eating with a high frequency with a goal of eating every two to four hours over the course of the day when she is awake.  Her weight loss was discouraged.  Patient was encouraged to eat more generously but with attention to the amount of carbohydrates consumed at a time.,PLAN:,  The meal plan provided has a carbohydrate content that represents 40 percent of a 2000-calorie meal plan.  The meal plan was devised to distribute her carbohydrates more evenly throughout the day.  The meal plan was meant to reflect an example for her eating, while the patient was encouraged to eat according to appetite and not to go without eating for long periods of time.  The meal plan is as follows:  breakfast 2 carbohydrate servings, snack 1 carbohydrate serving, lunch 2-3 carbohydrate servings, snack 1 carbohydrate serving, dinner 2-3 carbohydrate servings, bedtime snack 1-2 carbohydrate servings.  Recommend patient include a solid protein with each of her meals as well as with her snack that occurs before going to sleep.  Encouraged adequate rest.  Also recommend adequate calories to sustain weight gain of one-half to one pound per week.  If the meal plan reflected does not support slow gradual weight gain, then we will need to add more foods accordingly.  This was a one-hour consultation.  I provided my name and number should additional needs arise.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is keeping a food journal that she brought in.  She is counting calorie points, which ranged 26 to 30 per day.  She is exercising pretty regularly.  She attends Overeaters Anonymous and her sponsor is helping her and told her to get some ideas on how to plan snacks to prevent hypoglycemia.  The patient requests information on diabetic exchanges.  She said she is feeling better since she has lost weight.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital Signs:  The patient's weight today is 209 pounds, which is down 22 pounds since I last saw her on 06/07/2004.  I praised her weight loss and her regular exercising.  I looked at her food journal.  I praised her record keeping.  I gave her a list of the diabetic exchanges and explained them.  I also gave her a food dairy sheet so that she could record exchanges.  I encouraged her to continue.,ASSESSMENT:,  The patient seems happy with her progress and she seems to be doing well.  She needs to continue.,PLAN:,  Followup is on a p.r.n. basis.  She is always welcome to call or return.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a 28-year-old female who comes for dietary consultation for diabetes during pregnancy.  Patient reports that she had gestational diabetes with her first pregnancy.  She did use insulin at that time as well.  She does not fully understand what ketones are.  She walks her daughter to school and back home each day which takes 20 minutes each way.  She is not a big milk drinker, but she does try to drink some.,OBJECTIVE:,  Weight is 238.3 pounds.  Weight from last week’s visit was 238.9 pounds.  Prepregnancy weight is reported at 235 pounds.  Height is 62-3/4 inches.  Prepregnancy BMI is approximately 42-1/2.  Insulin schedule is NovoLog 70/30, 20 units in the morning and 13 units at supper time.  Blood sugar records for the last week reveal the following:  Fasting blood sugars ranging from 92 to 104 with an average of 97, two-hour postprandial breakfast readings ranging from 172 to 196 with an average of 181, two-hour postprandial lunch readings ranging from 149 to 189 with an average of 168 and two-hour postprandial dinner readings ranging from 109 to 121 with an average of 116.  Overall average is 140.  A diet history was obtained.  Expected date of confinement is May 1, 2005.  Instructed the patient on dietary guidelines for gestational diabetes.  A 2300 meal plan was provided and reviewed.  The Lily Guide for Meal Planning was provided and reviewed.,ASSESSMENT:,  Patient’s basal energy expenditure adjusted for obesity is estimated at 1566 calories a day.  Her total calorie requirements, including physical activity factors as well as additional calories for pregnancy, totals 2367 calories a day.  Her diet history reveals that she is eating three meals a day and three snacks.  The snacks were just added last week following presence of ketones in her urine.  We identified carbohydrate sources in the food supply, recognizing that they are the foods that raise blood sugar the most.  We identified 15 gram equivalents of carbohydrate and established a carbohydrate budget.  We also discussed the goal of balancing food intake with blood sugar control and adequate caloric intake to sustain appropriate weight gain for the pregnancy of 1/2 a pound a week through the duration of the pregnancy.  We discussed the physiology of ketone production from inadequate calories or inadequate insulin and elevated blood sugars.  While a sample meal plan was provided reflecting the patient’s carbohydrate budget I emphasized the need for her to eat according to her appetite, but to work at consistency in the volume of carbohydrates consumed at a given meal or a given snack from day to day.  Patient was assured that we can titrate the insulin to match whatever eating pattern is suitable for her as long as she can do it on a consistent basis.  At the same time she was encouraged to continue to eliminate the more concentrated forms of refined carbohydrates.,PLAN:,  Recommend the patient work with the following meal plan with a carbohydrate budget representing approximately 45% of the calories from carbohydrate.  Breakfast:  Three carbohydrate servings.  Morning snack:  One carbohydrate serving.  Lunch:  Four carbohydrate servings.  Afternoon snack:  One carbohydrate serving.  Supper:  Four carbohydrate servings.  Bedtime snack:  One carbohydrate serving.  Encouraged patient to include some solid protein with each of her meals as well as with the bedtime snack.  Encouraged three servings of dairy products per day to meet nutritional needs for calcium during pregnancy.  Recommend patient include a fruit or a vegetable with most of her meals.  Also recommend including solid protein with each meal as well as with the bedtime snack.  Charlie Athene reviewed blood sugars at this consultation as well, and made the following insulin adjustment:  Morning 70/30, will increase from 20 units up to 24 units and evening 70/30, we will increase from 13 units up to 16 units.  Patient was encouraged to call in blood sugars at the end of the week if they are outside of the range of over 90 fasting and over 120 two-hour postprandial.  Provided my name and number should there be additional dietary questions.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient's assistant brings in her food diary sheets.  The patient says she stays active by walking at the mall.,OBJECTIVE:,  Weight today is 201 pounds, which is down 3 pounds in the past month.  She has lost a total of 24 pounds.  I praised this and encouraged her to continue.  I went over her food diary.  I praised her three-meal pattern and all of her positive food choices, especially the use of sugar-free Kool-Aid, sugar-free Jell-O, sugar-free lemonade, diet pop, as well as the variety of foods she is using in her three-meal pattern.  I encouraged her to continue all of this.,ASSESSMENT:,  The patient has been successful with weight loss due to assistance from others in keeping a food diary, picking lower-calorie items, her three-meal pattern, getting a balanced diet, and all her physical activity.  She needs to continue all this.,PLAN:,  Followup is set for 06/13/05 to check the patient's weight, her food diary, and answer any questions.

SUBJECTIVE:,  I am asked to see the patient today with ongoing issues around her diabetic control.  We have been fairly aggressively, downwardly adjusting her insulins, both the Lantus insulin, which we had been giving at night as well as her sliding scale Humalog insulin prior to meals.  Despite frequent decreases in her insulin regimen, she continues to have somewhat low blood glucoses, most notably in the morning when the glucoses have been in the 70s despite decreasing her Lantus insulin from around 84 units down to 60 units, which is a considerable change.  What I cannot explain is why her glucoses have not really climbed at all despite the decrease in insulin.  The staff reports to me that her appetite is good and that she is eating as well as ever.  I talked to Anna today.  She feels a little fatigued.  Otherwise, she is doing well.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  ,Vitals as in the chart.  The patient is a pleasant and cooperative.  She is in no apparent distress.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: , Diabetes, still with some problematic low blood glucoses, most notably in the morning.  To address this situation, I am going to hold her Lantus insulin tonight and decrease and then change the administration time to in the morning.  She will get 55 units in the morning.  I am also decreasing once again her Humalog sliding scale insulin prior to meals.  I will review the blood glucoses again next week.,

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 79-year-old African-American female with a self reported height of 5 foot 3 inches and weight of 197 pounds.  She was diagnosed with type 2 diabetes in 1983.  She is not allergic to any medicines.,DIABETES MEDICATIONS:,  Her diabetes medications include Humulin insulin 70/30, 44 units at breakfast and 22 units at supper.  Also metformin 500 mg at supper.,OTHER MEDICATIONS: , Other medications include verapamil, Benicar, Toprol, clonidine, and hydrochlorothiazide.,ASSESSMENT:,  The patient and her daughter completed both days of diabetes education in a group setting.  Blood glucose records and food diaries are reviewed by the diabetes educator and the dietician.  Fasting blood sugars are 127, 80, and 80.  Two-hour postprandial breakfast reading was 105, two-hour postprandial lunch reading was 88, and two-hour postprandial dinner reading was 73 and 63.  Her diet was excellent.,Seven hours of counseling about diabetes mellitus was provided on this date.,Blood glucose values obtained at 10 a.m. were 84 and at 2.30 p.m. were 109.  Assessment of her knowledge is completed at the end of the counseling session.  She demonstrated increased knowledge in all areas and had no further questions.  She also completed an evaluation of the class.,The patient's feet were examined during the education session.  She had flat feet bilaterally.  Skin color was pink, temperature warm.  Pedal pulses 2+.  Her right second and third toes lay on each other.  Also, the same on her left foot.  However, there was no skin breakdown.  She had large bunions, medial aspect of the ball of both feet.  She had positive sensitivity to most areas of her feet, however, she had negative sensitivity to the medial and lateral aspect of the balls of her left foot.,During the education session, she set behavioral goals for self care.  First goal is to eat three meals a day and eat three snacks daily to improve her blood glucose levels.  Second goal is to eat a well balanced meal at 1200 calories in order to lose one-half pound of weight per week and improve her blood glucose control.  Third goal is to exercise by walking for 15 to 30 minutes a day, three to five days a week to increase her blood glucose control.  Her success in achieving these goals will be followed in three months by a letter from the diabetes education class.,RECOMMENDATIONS:,  Since she is doing so well with her diet changes, her blood sugars have been within normal limits and sometimes on the low side, especially considering the fact that she has low blood sugar unawareness.  She is to followup with Dr. XYZ for possible reduction in her insulin doses.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a 29-year-old Vietnamese female, established patient of dermatology, last seen in our office on 07/13/04.  She comes in today as a referral from ABC, D.O. for a reevaluation of her hand eczema.  I have treated her with Aristocort cream, Cetaphil cream, increased moisturizing cream and lotion, and wash her hands in Cetaphil cleansing lotion.  She comes in today for reevaluation because she is flaring.  Her hands are very dry, they are cracked, she has been washing with soap.  She states that the Cetaphil cleansing lotion apparently is causing some burning and pain because of the fissures in her skin.  She has been wearing some gloves also apparently.  The patient is single.  She is unemployed.,FAMILY, SOCIAL, AND ALLERGY HISTORY: , The patient has asthma, sinus, hives, and history of psoriasis.  No known drug allergies.,MEDICATIONS: , The patient is a nonsmoker.  No bad sunburns or blood pressure problems in the past.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Claritin and Zyrtec p.r.n.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,  The patient has very dry, cracked hands bilaterally.,IMPRESSION:,  Hand dermatitis.,TREATMENT:,1.  Discussed further treatment with the patient and her interpreter.,2.  Apply Aristocort ointment 0.1% and equal part of Polysporin ointment t.i.d. and p.r.n. itch.,3.  Discontinue hot soapy water and wash her hands with Cetaphil cleansing lotion.,4.  Keflex 500 mg b.i.d. times two weeks with one refill.  Return in one month if not better; otherwise, on a p.r.n. basis and send Dr. XYZ a letter on this office visit.

SUBJECTIVE:,  His brother, although he is a vegetarian, has elevated cholesterol and he is on medication to lower it.  The patient started improving his diet when he received the letter explaining his lipids are elevated.  He is consuming less cappuccino, quiche, crescents, candy from vending machines, etc.  He has started packing his lunch three to four times per week instead of eating out so much.  He is exercising six to seven days per week by swimming, biking, running, lifting weights one and a half to two and a half hours each time.  He is in training for a triathlon.  He says he is already losing weight due to his efforts.,OBJECTIVE:,  Height:  6 foot 2 inches.  Weight:  204 pounds on 03/07/05.  Ideal body weight:  190 pounds, plus or minus ten percent.  He is 107 percent standard of midpoint ideal body weight.  BMI:  26.189.  A 48-year-old male.  Lab on 03/15/05:  Cholesterol:  251.  LDL:  166.  VLDL:  17.  HDL:  68.  Triglycerides:  87.  I explained to the patient the dietary guidelines to help improve his lipids.  I recommend a 26 to 51 to 77 fat grams per day for a 10 to 20 to 30 percent fat level of 2,300 calories since he is interested in losing weight.  I went over the printed information sheet on lowering your cholesterol and that was given to him along with a booklet on the same topic to read.  I encouraged him to continue as he is doing.,ASSESSMENT:,  Basal energy expenditure 1960 x 1.44 activity factor is approximately 2,800 calories.  His 24-hour recall shows he is making many positive changes already to lower his fat and cholesterol intake.  He needs to continue as he is doing.  He verbalized understanding and seemed receptive.,PLAN:,  The patient plans to recheck his lipids through Dr. XYZ  I gave him my phone number and he is to call me if he has any further questions regarding his diet.

SUBJECTIVE: , Review of the medical record shows that the patient is a 97-year-old female patient who has been admitted and has been treated for community acquired pneumonia along with COPD exacerbation.  The patient does have a longstanding history of COPD.  However, she does not use oxygen at her independent assisted living home.  Yesterday, she had made improvement since being here at the hospital.  She needed oxygen.  She was tested for home O2 and qualified for it yesterday also.  Her lungs were very tight.  She did have wheezes bilaterally and rhonchi on the right side mostly.  She appeared to be a bit weak and although she was requesting to be discharged home, she did not appear to be fit for it.,Overnight, the patient needed to use the rest room.  She stated that she needed to urinate.  She awoke, decided not to call for assistance.  She stated that she did have her nurse call light button next to her and she was unable to gain access to her walker.  She attempted to walk to the rest room on her own.  She sustained a fall.  She stated that she just felt weak.  She bumped her knee and her elbow.  She had femur x-rays, knee x-rays also.  There was possibility of subchondral fracture and some swelling of her suprapatellar bursa on the right side.  This morning, she denied any headache, back pain or neck pain.  She complained mostly of right anterior knee pain for which she had some bruising and swelling.,OBJECTIVE:,VITAL SIGNS:  The patient's max temperature over the past 24 hours was 36.5; her blood pressure is 148/77, her pulse is 87 to 106.  She is 95% on 2 L via nasal cannula.,HEART:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur, gallop or rub.,LUNGS:  Reveal no expiratory wheezing throughout.  She does have some rhonchi on the right mid base.  She did have a productive cough this morning and she is coughing green purulent sputum finally.,ABDOMEN:  Soft and nontender.  Her bowel sounds x4 are normoactive.,NEUROLOGIC:  She is alert and oriented x3.  Her pupils are equal and reactive.  She has got a good head and facial muscle strength.  Her tongue is midline.  She has got clear speech.  Her extraocular motions are intact.  Her spine is nontender on palpation from neck to lumbar spine.  She has good range of motion with regard to her shoulders, elbows, wrists and fingers.  Her grip strengths are equal bilaterally.  Both elbows are strong from extension to flexion.  Her hip flexors and extenders are also strong and equal bilaterally.  Extension and flexion of the knee bilaterally and ankles also are strong.  Palpation of her right knee reveals no crepitus.  She does have suprapatellar inflammation with some ecchymosis and swelling.  She has got good joint range of motion however.,SKIN:  She did have a skin tear involving her right forearm lateral, which is approximately 2 to 2.5 inches in length and is at this time currently Steri-Stripped and wrapped with Coban and is not actively bleeding.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Acute on chronic COPD exacerbation.,2.  Community acquired pneumonia both resolving.  However, she may need home O2 for a short period of time.,3.  Generalized weakness and deconditioning secondary to the above.  Also sustained a fall secondary to instability and not using her walker or calling for assistance.  The patient stated that she knew better and she should have called for assistance and she had been told repeatedly from her family members and staff to call for assistance if she needed to get out of bed.,PLAN:,1.  I will have PT and OT evaluate the patient and give recommendation to safety and appliance use at home i.e. walker.  Myself and one of her daughter's spoke today about the fact that she generally lives independently at the Brooke and she may need assisted living along with physical therapy and oxygen for a period of time rather than going back to independent living.,2.  We will obtain an orthopedic consult secondary to her fall to evaluate her x-rays and function.

SUBJECTIVE:  ,The patient seen and examined feels better today.  Still having diarrhea, decreased appetite.  Good urine output 600 mL since 7 o'clock in the morning.  Afebrile.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION,GENERAL:  Nonacute distress, awake, alert, and oriented x3.,VITAL SIGNS:  Blood pressure 102/64, heart rate of 89, respiratory rate of 12, temperature 96.8, and O2 saturation 94% on room air.,HEENT:  PERRLA, EOMI.,NECK:  Supple.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  Regular rate and rhythm.,RESPIRATORY:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.,ABDOMEN:  Bowel sounds are positive, soft, and nontender. EXTREMITIES:  No edema.  Pulses present bilaterally.,LABORATORY DATA:  ,CBC, WBC count today down 10.9 from 17.3 yesterday 26.9 on admission, hemoglobin 10.2, hematocrit 31.3, and platelet count 370,000.  BMP, BUN of 28.3 from 32.2, creatinine 1.8 from 1.89 from 2.7.  Calcium of 8.2.  Sodium 139, potassium 3.9, chloride 108, and CO2 of 22.  Liver function test is unremarkable.,Stool positive for Clostridium difficile.  Blood culture was 131.  O2 saturation result is pending.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,1.  Most likely secondary to Clostridium difficile colitis and urinary tract infection improving.  The patient hemodynamically stable, leukocytosis improved and today he is afebrile.,2.  Acute renal failure secondary to dehydration, BUN and creatinine improving.,3.  Clostridium difficile colitis, Continue Flagyl, evaluation Dr. X in a.m.,4.  Urinary tract infection, continue Levaquin for last during culture.,5.  Leucocytosis, improving.,6.  Minimal elevated cardiac enzyme on admission.  Followup with Cardiology recommendations.,7.  Possible pneumonia, continue vancomycin and Levaquin.,8.  The patient may be transferred to telemetry.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 78-year-old female with the problem of essential hypertension.  She has symptoms that suggested intracranial pathology, but so far work-up has been negative.,She is taking hydrochlorothiazide 25-mg once a day and K-Dur 10-mEq once a day with adequate control of her blood pressure.  She denies any chest pain, shortness of breath, PND, ankle swelling, or dizziness.,OBJECTIVE:,  Heart rate is 80 and blood pressure is 130/70.  Head and neck are unremarkable.  Heart sounds are normal.  Abdomen is benign.  Extremities are without edema.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,  The patient reports that she had an echocardiogram done in the office of Dr. Sample Doctor4 and was told that she had a massive heart attack in the past.  I have not had the opportunity to review any investigative data like chest x-ray, echocardiogram, EKG, etc.  So, I advised her to have a chest x-ray and an EKG done before her next appointment, and we will try to get hold of the echocardiogram on her from the office of Dr. Sample Doctor4.  In the meantime, she is doing quite well, and she was advised to continue her current medication and return to the office in three months for followup.

SUBJECTIVE: , The patient is not in acute distress.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,VITAL SIGNS:  Blood pressure of 121/63, pulse is 75, and O2 saturation is 94% on room air.,HEAD AND NECK:  Face is symmetrical.  Cranial nerves are intact.,CHEST:  There is prolonged expiration.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  First and second heart sounds are heard.  No murmur was appreciated.,ABDOMEN:  Soft and nontender.  Bowel sounds are positive.,EXTREMITIES:  He has 2+ pedal swelling.,NEUROLOGIC:  The patient is asleep, but easily arousable.,LABORATORY DATA:,  PTT is 49.  INR is pending.  BUN is improved to 20.6, creatinine is 0.7, sodium is 123, and potassium is 3.8.  AST is down to 45 and ALT to 99.,DIAGNOSTIC STUDIES: , Nuclear stress test showed moderate size, mostly fixed defect involving the inferior wall with a small area of peri-infarct ischemia.  Ejection fraction is 25%.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,1.  Congestive heart failure due to rapid atrial fibrillation and systolic dysfunction.  Continue current treatment as per Cardiology.  We will consider adding ACE inhibitors as renal function improves.,2.  Acute pulmonary edema, resolved.,3.  Rapid atrial fibrillation, rate controlled.  The patient is on beta-blockers and digoxin.  Continue Coumadin.  Monitor INR.,4.  Coronary artery disease with ischemic cardiomyopathy.  Continue beta-blockers.,5.  Urinary tract infection.  Continue Rocephin.,6.  Bilateral perfusion secondary to congestive heart failure.  We will monitor.,7.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, stable.,8.  Abnormal liver function due to congestive heart failure with liver congestion, improving.,9.  Rule out hypercholesterolemia.  We will check lipid profile.,10.  Tobacco smoking disorder.  The patient has been counseled.,11.  Hyponatremia, stable.  This is due to fluid overload.  Continue diuresis as per Nephrology.,12.  Deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis.  The patient is on heparin drip.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a 62-year-old female who comes for dietary consultation for carbohydrate counting for type I diabetes.  The patient reports that she was hospitalized over the weekend for DKA.  She indicates that her blood sugar on Friday night was 187 at bedtime and that when she woke up in the morning her blood sugar was 477.  She gave herself, in smaller increments, a total of 70 extra units of her Humalog.  Ten of those units were injectable; the others were in the forms of pump.  Her blood sugar was over 600 when she went to the hospital later that day.  She is here at this consultation complaining of not feeling well still because she has a cold.  She realizes that this is likely because her immune system was so minimized in the hospital.,OBJECTIVE:,  Current insulin doses on her insulin pump are boluses set at 5 units at breakfast, 6 units at lunch and 11 units at supper.  Her basal rates have not been changed since her last visit with Charla Yassine and totaled 30.5 units per 24 hours.  A diet history was obtained.  I instructed the patient on carbohydrate counting at 1 unit of insulin for every 10 g carbohydrate ratio was recommended.  A correction dose of approximately 1 unit of insulin to bring the blood sugars down 30 mg/dl was also recommended.  The Lilly guide for meal planning was provided and reviewed.  Additional carbohydrate counting book was provided.,ASSESSMENT:,  The patient was taught an insulin-to-carbohydrate ratio of 1 unit to 10 g of carbohydrates as recommended at the previous visit two years ago, which she does not recall.  It is based on the 500 rule which suggests this ratio.  We did identify carbohydrate sources in the food supply, recognizing 15-g equivalents.  We also identified the need to dose her insulin at the time that she is eating her carbohydrate sources.  She does seem to have a pattern of fixing blood sugars later in the day after they are elevated.  We discussed the other option of trying to eat a consistent amount of carbohydrates at meals from day to day and taking a consistent amount of insulin at those meals.  With this in mind, she was recommended to follow with three servings or 45 g of carbohydrate at breakfast, three servings or 45 g of carbohydrate at lunch and four servings or 60 g of carbohydrate at dinner.  Joanne Araiza joined our consultation briefly to discuss whether her pump was working appropriately.  The patient was given an 800 number for the pump to contact should there be any question about its failure to deliver insulin appropriately.,PLAN:,  Recommend the patient use 1 unit of insulin for every 10-g carbohydrate load consumed.  Recommend the patient either use this as a carbohydrate counting tool or work harder at keeping carbohydrate content consistent at meals from day to day.  This was a one-hour consultation.  Provided my name and number should additional needs arise.

SUBJECTIVE:  ,The patient seeks evaluation for a second opinion concerning cataract extraction.  She tells me cataract extraction has been recommended in each eye; however, she is nervous to have surgery.  Past ocular surgery history is significant for neurovascular age-related macular degeneration.  She states she has had laser four times to the macula on the right and two times to the left, she sees Dr. X for this.,OBJECTIVE: , On examination, visual acuity with correction measures 20/400 OU.  Manifest refraction does not improve this.  There is no afferent pupillary defect.  Visual fields are grossly full to hand motions.  Intraocular pressure measures 17 mm in each eye.  Slit-lamp examination is significant for clear corneas OU.  There is early nuclear sclerosis in both eyes.  There is a sheet like 1-2+ posterior subcapsular cataract on the left.  Dilated examination shows choroidal neovascularization with subretinal heme and blood in both eyes.,ASSESSMENT/PLAN:  ,Advanced neurovascular age-related macular degeneration OU, this is ultimately visually limiting.  Cataracts are present in both eyes.  I doubt cataract removal will help increase visual acuity; however, I did discuss with the patient, especially in the left, cataract surgery will help Dr. X better visualize the macula for future laser treatment so that her current vision can be maintained.  This information was conveyed with the use of a translator.,

SUBJECTIVE: , The patient states that she feels better.  She is on IV amiodarone, the dosage pattern is appropriate for ventricular tachycardia.  Researching the available records, I find only an EMS verbal statement that tachycardia of wide complex was seen.  There is no strip for me to review all available EKG tracings show a narrow complex atrial fibrillation pattern that is now converted to sinus rhythm.,The patient states that for a week, she has been home postoperative from aortic valve replacement on 12/01/08 at ABC Medical Center.  The aortic stenosis was secondary to a congenital bicuspid valve, by her description.  She states that her shortness of breath with exertion has been stable, but has yet to improve from its preoperative condition.  She has not had any decline in her postoperative period of her tolerance to exertion.,The patient had noted intermittent bursts of fast heart rate at home that had been increasing over the last several days.  Last night, she had a prolonged episode for which she contacted EMS.  Her medications at home had been uninterrupted and without change from those listed, being Toprol-XL 100 mg q.a.m., Dyazide 25/37.5 mg, Nexium 40 mg, all taken once a day.  She has been maintaining her Crestor and Zetia at 20 and 10 mg respectively.  She states that she has been taking her aspirin at 325 mg q.a.m.  She remains on Zyrtec 10 mg q.a.m.  Her only allergy is listed to latex.,OBJECTIVE:,VITAL SIGNS:  Temperature 36.1, heart rate 60, respirations 14, room air saturation 98%, and blood pressure 108/60.  The patient shows a normal sinus rhythm on the telemetry monitor with an occasional PAC.,GENERAL:  She is alert and in no apparent distress.,HEENT:  Eyes:  EOMI.  PERRLA.  Sclerae nonicteric.  No lesions of lids, lashes, brows, or conjunctivae noted.  Funduscopic examination unremarkable.  Ears:  Normal set, shape, TMs, canals and hearing.  Nose and Sinuses:  Negative.  Mouth, Tongue, Teeth, and Throat:  Negative except for dental work.,NECK:  Supple and pain free without bruit, JVD, adenopathy or thyroid abnormality.,CHEST:  Lungs are clear bilaterally to auscultation.  The incision is well healed and without evidence of significant cellulitis.,HEART:  Shows a regular rate and rhythm without murmur, gallop, heave, click, thrill or rub.  There is an occasional extra beat noted, which corresponds to a premature atrial contraction on the monitor.,ABDOMEN:  Soft and benign without hepatosplenomegaly, rebound, rigidity or guarding.,EXTREMITIES:  Show no evidence of DVT, acute arthritis, cellulitis or pedal edema.,NEUROLOGIC:  Nonfocal without lateralizing findings for cranial or peripheral nervous systems, strength, sensation, and cerebellar function.  Gait and station were not tested.,MENTAL STATUS:  Shows the patient to be alert, coherent with full capacity for decision making.,BACK:  Negative to inspection or percussion.,LABORATORY DATA: , Shows from 12/15/08 2100, hemoglobin 11.6, white count 12.9, and platelets 126,000.  INR 1.0.  Electrolytes are normal with exception potassium 3.3.  GFR is decreased at 50 with creatinine of 1.1.  Glucose was 119.  Magnesium was 2.3.  Phosphorus 3.8.  Calcium was slightly low at 7.8.  The patient has had ionized calcium checked at Munson that was normal at 4.5 prior to her discharge.  Troponin is negative x2 from 2100 and repeat at 07:32.  This morning, her BNP was 163 at admission.  Her admission chest x-ray was unremarkable and did not show evidence of cardiomegaly to suggest pericardial effusion.  Her current EKG tracing from 05:42 shows a sinus bradycardia with Wolff-Parkinson White Pattern, a rate of 58 beats per minute, and a corrected QT interval of 557 milliseconds.  Her PR interval was 0.12.,We received a call from Munson Medical Center that a bed had been arranged for the patient.  I contacted Dr. Varner and we reviewed the patient's managed to this point.  All combined impression is that the patient was likely to not have had actual ventricular tachycardia.  This is based on her EP study from October showing her to be non-inducible.  In addition, she had a cardiac catheterization that showed no evidence of coronary artery disease.  What is most likely that the patient has postoperative atrial fibrillation.  Her WPW may have degenerated into a ventricular tachycardia, but this is unlikely.  At this point, we will convert the patient from IV amiodarone to oral amiodarone and obtain an echocardiogram to verify that she does not have evidence of pericardial effusion in the postoperative period.  I will recheck her potassium, magnesium, calcium, and phosphorus at this point and make adjustments if indicated.  Dr. Varner will be making arrangements for an outpatient Holter monitor and further followup post-discharge.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response.,2.  Wolff-Parkinson White Syndrome.,3.  Recent aortic valve replacement with bioprosthetic Medtronic valve.,4.  Hyperlipidemia.

SUBJECTIVE:  ,School reports continuing difficulties with repetitive questioning, obsession with cleanness on a daily basis, concerned about his inability to relate this well in the classroom.  He appears confused and depressed at times.  Mother also indicates that preservative questioning had come down, but he started collecting old little toys that he did in the past.  He will attend social skills program in the summer.  ABCD indicated to me that they have identified two psychologists to refer him to for functional behavioral analysis.  There is lessening of tremoring in both hands since discontinuation of Zoloft.  He is now currently taking Abilify at 7.5 mg.,OBJECTIVE: , He came in less perseverative questioning, asked appropriate question about whether I talked to ABCD or not, greeted me with Japanese word to say hello, seemed less.,I also note that his tremors were less from the last time.,ASSESSMENT: , 299.8 Asperger disorder, 300.03 obsessive compulsive disorder.,PLAN:,  Decrease Abilify from 7.5 mg to 5 mg tablet one a day, no refills needed.  I am introducing slow Luvox 25 mg tablet one-half a.m. for OCD symptoms, if no side effects in one week we will to tablet one up to therapeutic level.,I also will call ABCD regarding the referral to psychologists for functional behavioral analysis.  Parents will call me in two weeks.  I will see him for medication review in four weeks.  Mother signed informed consent.  I reviewed side effects to observe including behavioral activation.,Abilify has been helpful in decreasing high emotional arousal.  Combination of medication and behavioral intervention is recommended.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 75-year-old female who comes in today with concerns of having a stroke.  She states she feels like she has something in her throat.  She started with some dizziness this morning and some left hand and left jaw numbness.  She said that she apparently had something about three weeks ago where she was dizzy and ended up falling down and she saw Dr. XYZ for that who gave her some Antivert.  She said that today though she woke up in the middle of the night and her left hand was numb and she was having numbness on the left side of her face, as well as the left side of her neck.  She said she had an earache a day or so ago.  She has not had any cold symptoms.,ALLERGIES:,  Demerol and codeine.,MEDICATIONS: , Lotensin, Lopid, metoprolol, and Darvocet.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  The patient says that she feels little bit nauseated at times.  She denies chest pain or shortness of breath and again feels like she has something in her throat.  She has been able to swallow liquids okay.  She said that she did brush her teeth this morning and did not have any fluid dripping out of her mouth.  She does say that she occasionally has numbness in her left hand prior to today.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,General:  She is awake and alert, no acute distress.,Vital Signs:  Blood pressure:  175/86.  Temperature:  She is afebrile.  Pulse:  78.  Respiratory rate:  20.  O2 sat:  93% on room air.,HEENT:  Her TMs are normal bilaterally.  Posterior pharynx is unremarkable.  It should be noted that her uvula did not deviate and neither did her tongue.  When she smiles though she has some drooping of the left side of her face, as well as some mild nasolabial fold flattening.,Neck:  Without adenopathy or thyromegaly.  Carotids pulses are brisk without bruits.,Lungs:  Clear to auscultation.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur.,Extremities:  Her muscle strength is symmetrical and intact bilaterally.  DTRs are 2+/4+ bilaterally and muscle strength is intact in the upper extremities.  She has a positive Tinel’s sign on her left wrist.,Neurological:  I also took monofilament and she could sense it easily when testing her sensation on her face.,ASSESSMENT:,  Bell’s Palsy.,PLAN:,  We did get an EKG showed some ST segment changes anterolaterally.  The only EKG I have here is from 1998 and she actually had bypass in 1999, but there certainly does not appear to be anything acute on his EKG.  I assured her that it does not look like she has a stroke.  If she wants to prevent a stroke, obviously quitting her smoking would help.  It should be noted she also takes Synthroid and Zocor.  We are going to give her Valtrex 1 g t.i.d. for seven days and then if she starts noticing any other drooping or worsening of her symptoms on the left side of her face, she needs to come back, but I will not start her on steroids at this time, which she agreed with.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 49-year-old white female, established patient to Dermatology, last seen in the office on 08/10/2004.  She comes in today for reevaluation of her acne plus she has had what she calls a rash for the past two months now on her chest, stomach, neck, and back.  On examination, this is a flaring of her acne with small folliculitis lesions.  The patient has been taking amoxicillin 500 mg b.i.d. and using Tazorac cream 0.1, and her face is doing well, but she has been out of her medicine now for three days also.  She has also been getting photofacials at Healing Waters and was wondering about what we could offer as far as cosmetic procedures and skin care products, etc.  The patient is married.  She is a secretary.,FAMILY, SOCIAL, AND ALLERGY HISTORY:,  She has hay fever, eczema, sinus, and hives.  She has no melanoma or skin cancers or psoriasis.  Her mother had oral cancer.  The patient is a nonsmoker.  No blood tests.  Had some sunburn in the past.  She is on benzoyl peroxide and Daypro.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Lexapro, Effexor, Ditropan, aspirin, vitamins.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,  The patient is well developed, appears stated age.  Overall health is good.  She has a couple of acne lesions, one on her face and neck but there are a lot of small folliculitis-like lesions on her abdomen, chest, and back.,IMPRESSION:,  Acne with folliculitis.,TREATMENT:,1.  Discussed condition and treatment with the patient.,2.  Continue the amoxicillin 500 mg two at bedtime.,3.  Add Septra DS every morning with extra water.,4.  Continue the Tazorac cream 0.1; it is okay to use on back and chest also.,5.  Referred to ABC clinic for an aesthetic consult.  Return in two months for followup evaluation of her acne.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This 23-year-old white female presents with complaint of allergies.  She used to have allergies when she lived in Seattle but she thinks they are worse here.  In the past, she has tried Claritin, and Zyrtec.  Both worked for short time but then seemed to lose effectiveness.  She has used Allegra also.  She used that last summer and she began using it again two weeks ago.  It does not appear to be working very well.  She has used over-the-counter sprays but no prescription nasal sprays.  She does have asthma but doest not require daily medication for this and does not think it is flaring up.,MEDICATIONS: , Her only medication currently is Ortho Tri-Cyclen and the Allegra.,ALLERGIES: , She has no known medicine allergies.,OBJECTIVE:,Vitals:  Weight was 130 pounds and blood pressure 124/78.,HEENT:  Her throat was mildly erythematous without exudate.  Nasal mucosa was erythematous and swollen.  Only clear drainage was seen.  TMs were clear.,Neck:  Supple without adenopathy.,Lungs:  Clear.,ASSESSMENT:,  Allergic rhinitis.,PLAN:,1.  She will try Zyrtec instead of Allegra again.  Another option will be to use loratadine.  She does not think she has prescription coverage so that might be cheaper.,2.  Samples of Nasonex two sprays in each nostril given for three weeks.  A prescription was written as well.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is here for a follow-up.  The patient has a history of lupus, currently on Plaquenil 200-mg b.i.d.  Eye report was noted and appreciated.  The patient states that she is having some aches and pains of the hands and elbows that started recently a few weeks ago.  She denied having any trauma.  She states that the pain is bothering her.  She denies having any fevers, chills, or any joint effusion or swelling at this point.  She noted also that there is some increase in her hair loss in the recent times.,OBJECTIVE:,  The patient is alert and oriented.  General physical exam is unremarkable.  Musculoskeletal exam reveals positive tenderness in both lateral epicondyles of both elbows, no effusion.  Hand examination is unremarkable today.  The rest of the musculoskeletal exam is unremarkable.,ASSESSMENT:,  Epicondylitis, both elbows, possibly secondary to lupus flare-up.,PLAN:,  We will inject both elbows with 40-mg of Kenalog mixed with 1 cc of lidocaine.  The posterior approach was chosen under sterile conditions.  The patient tolerated both procedures well.  I will obtain CBC and urinalysis today.  If the patient's pain does not improve, I will consider adding methotrexate to her therapy.,Sample Doctor M.D.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a 6-year-old male who comes in rechecking his ADHD medicines.  We placed him on Adderall, first time he has been on a stimulant medication last month.  Mother said the next day, he had a wonderful improvement, and he has been doing very well with the medicine.  She has two concerns.  It seems like first thing in the morning after he takes the medicine and it seems like it takes a while for the medicine to kick in.  It wears off about 2 and they have problems in the evening with him.  He was initially having difficulty with his appetite but that seems to be coming back but it is more the problems early in the morning after he takes this medicine than in the afternoon when the thing wears off.  His teachers have seen a dramatic improvement and she did miss a dose this past weekend and said he was just horrible.  The patient even commented that he thought he needed his medication.,PAST HISTORY:,  Reviewed from appointment on 08/16/2004.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  He is on Adderall XR 10 mg once daily.,ALLERGIES: , To medicines are none.,FAMILY AND SOCIAL HISTORY:,  Reviewed from appointment on 08/16/2004.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  He has been having problems as mentioned in the morning and later in the afternoon but he has been eating well, sleeping okay.  Review of systems is otherwise negative.,OBJECTIVE:,  Weight is 46.5 pounds, which is down just a little bit from his appointment last month.  He was 49 pounds, but otherwise, fairly well controlled, not all that active in the exam room.  Physical exam itself was deferred today because he has otherwise been very healthy.,ASSESSMENT:,  At this point is attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, doing fairly well with the Adderall.,PLAN:,  Discussed with mother two options.  Switch him to the Ritalin LA, which I think has better release of the medicine early in the morning or to increase his Adderall dose.  As far as the afternoon, if she really wanted him to be on the medication, we will do a small dose of the Adderall, which she would prefer.  So I have decided at this point to increase him to the Adderall XR 15 mg in the morning and then Adderall 5 mg in the afternoon.  Mother is to watch his diet.  We would like to recheck his weight if he is doing very well, in two months.  But if there are any problems, especially in the morning then we would do the Ritalin LA.  Mother understands and will call if there are problems.  Approximately 25 minutes spent with patient, all in discussion.

SUBJECTIVE:  ,School reports continuing difficulties with repetitive questioning, obsession with cleanness on a daily basis, concerned about his inability to relate this well in the classroom.  He appears confused and depressed at times.  Mother also indicates that preservative questioning had come down, but he started collecting old little toys that he did in the past.  He will attend social skills program in the summer.  ABCD indicated to me that they have identified two psychologists to refer him to for functional behavioral analysis.  There is lessening of tremoring in both hands since discontinuation of Zoloft.  He is now currently taking Abilify at 7.5 mg.,OBJECTIVE: , He came in less perseverative questioning, asked appropriate question about whether I talked to ABCD or not, greeted me with Japanese word to say hello, seemed less.,I also note that his tremors were less from the last time.,ASSESSMENT: , 299.8 Asperger disorder, 300.03 obsessive compulsive disorder.,PLAN:,  Decrease Abilify from 7.5 mg to 5 mg tablet one a day, no refills needed.  I am introducing slow Luvox 25 mg tablet one-half a.m. for OCD symptoms, if no side effects in one week we will to tablet one up to therapeutic level.,I also will call ABCD regarding the referral to psychologists for functional behavioral analysis.  Parents will call me in two weeks.  I will see him for medication review in four weeks.  Mother signed informed consent.  I reviewed side effects to observe including behavioral activation.,Abilify has been helpful in decreasing high emotional arousal.  Combination of medication and behavioral intervention is recommended.

SUBJECTIVE:,  Mr. Sample Patient returns to the Sample Clinic with the chief complaint of painful right heel.  The patient states that the heel has been painful for approximately two weeks, it is starts with the first step in the morning and gets worse with activity during the day.  The patient states that he is currently doing no treatment for it.  He states that most of his pain is along medial tubercle of the right calcaneus and extends to the medial arch.  The patient states that he has no change in the past medical history since his last visit and denies any fever, chills, vomiting, headache, chest, or shortness of breath.,OBJECTIVE:,  Upon removal of shoes and socks bilaterally, neurovascular status remains unchanged since the last visit.  There is tenderness to palpation to the medial tubercle of the right foot.  The pain is elicited along the medial arch as well.  There are no open areas or signs of infection noted.,ASSESSMENT:,  Plantar fascitis/heel spur syndrome, right foot.,PLAN:,  The patient was given injections of 3 cc 2:1 mixture of 1% lidocaine plain with dexamethasone phospate.  He was given a low dye strapping and a heel lift was placed in his right shoe.  The patient will be seen back in approximately one month for further evaluation if necessary.  He was told to call if anything should occur before that.  The patient was told to continue with the good work on his diabetic control.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a 1-month-old who comes in for a healthy checkup.  Mom says things are gone very well.  He is kind of acting like he has got a little bit of sore throat but no fevers.  He is still eating well.  He is up to 4 ounces every feeding.  He has not been spitting up.  Voiding and stooling well.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Reviewed, very healthy.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  None.,ALLERGIES TO MEDICINES:,  None.,DIETARY: , His formula fed on Enfamil Lipil.  Voiding and stooling well.  Growth chart reviewed with Mom.,DEVELOPMENTAL:,  He is starting to track with his eyes.  He is smiling a little bit, moving hands and feet symmetrically.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,  In general well-developed, well-nourished male in no acute distress.,DERMATOLOGIC:  Without rash or lesion.,HEENT:  Head normocephalic and atraumatic.  Anterior fontanel soft and flat.  Eyes:  Pupils equal, round and reactive to light.  Extraocular movements intact.  Red reflexes present bilaterally.  Does appear to have conjugate gaze.  Ears:  Tympanic membranes are pink to gray, translucent, neutral position, normal light reflex and mobility.  Nares are patent, pink mucosa, moist.  Oropharynx clear with pink mucosa, normal moisture.,NECK:  Supple without masses.,CHEST:  Clear to auscultation and percussion with easy respirations and no accessory muscle use.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmurs, rubs, heaves or gallops.,ABDOMEN:  Soft, nontender, nondistended without hepatosplenomegaly.,GU EXAM:  Normal Tanner I male.  Testes descended bilaterally.  No hernias noted.,EXTREMITIES:  Pink and warm.  Moving all extremities well.  No subluxation of the hips and leg creases appear symmetric.,NEUROLOGIC:  Alert, otherwise nonfocal.  2+ deep tendon reflexes at the knees.  Fixes and follows appropriately to both voice and face.,ASSESSMENT:,  Well child check.,PLAN:,1.  Diet, growth and safety discussed.,2.  Immunizations discussed and updated with hepatitis B.,3.  Return to clinic at two months of age.  Call if problems.

SUBJECTIVE:,  Patient presents with Mom and Dad for her 5-year 3-month well-child check.  Family has not concerns stating patient has been doing well overall since last visit.  Taking in a well-balanced diet consisting of milk and dairy products, fruits, vegetables, proteins and grains with minimal junk food and snack food.  No behavioral concerns.  Gets along well with peers as well as adults.  Is excited to start kindergarten this upcoming school year.  Does attend daycare.  Normal voiding and stooling pattern.  No concerns with hearing or vision.  Sees the dentist regularly.  Growth and development:  Denver II normal passing all developmental milestones per age in areas of fine motor, gross motor, personal and social interaction and speech and language development.  See Denver II form in the chart.,ALLERGIES:,  None.,MEDICATIONS: , None.,FAMILY SOCIAL HISTORY:,  Unchanged since last checkup.  Lives at home with mother, father and sibling.  No smoking in the home.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  As per HPI; otherwise negative.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital Signs:  Weight 43 pounds.  Height 42-1/4 inches.  Temperature 97.7.  Blood pressure 90/64.,General:  Well-developed, well-nourished, cooperative, alert and interactive 5-year -3month-old white female in no acute distress.,HEENT:  Atraumatic, normocephalic.  Pupils equal, round and reactive.  Sclerae clear.  Red reflex present bilaterally.  Extraocular muscles intact.  TMs clear bilaterally.  Oropharynx:  Mucous membranes moist and pink.  Good dentition.,Neck:  Supple, no lymphadenopathy.,Chest:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.  No wheeze or crackles.  Good air exchange.,Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm.  No murmur.  Good pulses bilaterally.,Abdomen:  Soft, nontender.  Nondistended.  Positive bowel sounds.  No masses or organomegaly.,GU:  Tanner I female genitalia.  Femoral pulses equal bilaterally.  No rash.,Extremities:  Full range of motion.  No cyanosis, clubbing or edema.,Back:  Straight.  No scoliosis.,Integument:  Warm, dry and pink without lesions.,Neurological:  Alert.  Good muscle tone and strength.  Cranial nerves II-XII grossly intact.  DTRs 2+/4+ bilaterally.,ASSESSMENT/PLAN:,1. Well 5-year 3-month-old white female.,2. Anticipatory guidance for growth and diet development and safety issues as well as immunizations.  Will receive MMR, DTaP and IPV today.  Discussed risks and benefits as well as possible side effects and symptomatic treatment.  Gave 5-year well-child check handout to mom.  Completed school pre-participation physical.  Copy in the chart.  Completed vision and hearing screening.  Reviewed results with family.,3. Follow up in one year for next well-child check or as needed for acute care.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient presents with Mom and Dad for her 1-year well child check.  The family has no concerns stating the patient has been doing well overall since the last visit taking in a well-balanced diet consisting of formula transitioning to whole milk, fruits, vegetables, proteins and grains.  Normal voiding and stooling pattern.  No concerns with hearing or vision.  Growth and development:  Denver II normal passing all developmental milestones per age in areas of fine motor, gross motor, personal and social interaction as well as speech and language development.  See Denver II form in the chart.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Allergies:  None.  Medications:  Tylenol this morning in preparation for vaccines and a multivitamin daily.,FAMILY SOCIAL HISTORY:,  Unchanged since last checkup.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  As per HPI; otherwise negative.,OBJECTIVE:,  Weight 24 pounds 1 ounce.  Height 30 inches.  Head circumference 46.5 cm.  Temperature afebrile.,General:  A well-developed, well-nourished, cooperative, alert and interactive 1-year-old white female smiling, happy and drooling.,HEENT:  Atraumatic, normocephalic.  Anterior fontanel is closed.  Pupils equally round and reactive.  Sclerae are clear.  Red reflex present bilaterally.  Extraocular muscles intact.  TMs are clear bilaterally.  Oropharynx:  Mucous membranes are moist and pink.  Good dentition.  Drooling and chewing with teething behavior today.  Neck is supple.  No lymphadenopathy.,Chest:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.  No wheeze.  No crackles.  Good air exchange.,Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm.  No murmur.  Good pulses bilaterally.,Abdomen:  Soft, nontender.  Nondistended.  Positive bowel sounds.  No mass.  No organomegaly.,Genitourinary:  Tanner I female genitalia.  Femoral pulses equal bilaterally.  No rash.,Extremities:  Full range of motion.  No cyanosis, clubbing or edema.  Negative Ortolani and Barlow maneuver.,Back:  Straight.  No scoliosis.,Integument:  Warm, dry and pink without lesions.,Neurological:  Alert.  Good muscle tone and strength.  Cranial nerves II through XII are grossly intact.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,1.  Well 1-year-old white female.,2.  Anticipatory guidance.  Reviewed growth, diet development and safety issues as well as immunizations.  Will receive Pediarix and HIB today.  Discussed risks and benefits as well as possible side effects and symptomatic treatment.  Will also obtain a screening CBC and lead level today via fingerstick and call the family with results as they become available.  Gave 1-year well child checkup handout to Mom and Dad.,3.  Follow up for the 15-month well child check or as needed for acute care.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient presents with Mom for a first visit to our office for a well-child check with concern of some spitting up quite a bit.  Mom wants to make sure that this is normal.  The patient is nursing well every two to three hours.  She does have some spitting up on occasion.  It has happened two or three times with some curdled appearance x 1.  No projectile in nature, nonbilious.  Normal voiding and stooling pattern.  Growth and Development:  Denver II normal, passing all developmental milestones per age.  See Denver II form in the chart.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Mom reports uncomplicated pregnancy with prenatal care provided by Dr. XYZ in Wichita, Kansas.  Delivery after induction secondary to postdate at St. Joseph Hospital.  Infant delivered by SVD with birth weight of 6 pounds 13 ounce.  Length of 19 inches.  Did well after delivery and dismissed to home with Mom.  Received hepatitis B #1 prior to dismissal.  No other hospitalizations.  No surgeries.  No known medical allergies.  No medications.  Mom has tried Mylicon drops on occasion.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Significant for cardiovascular disease, hypertension, diabetes mellitus and thyroid problems in maternal and paternal grandparents.  Healthy Mother, Father.  There is also history of breast, colon and ovarian cancer on the maternal side of the family, her grandmother who is present at visit today.  There is history of asthma in the patient's father.,SOCIAL HISTORY:,  The patient lives at home with 23-year-old mother, who is a homemaker and 24-year-old father, John, who is a supervisor at Excel.  The family lives in Bentley, Kansas.  No smoking in the home.  Family does have one pet cat.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  As per HPI, otherwise, negative.,OBJECTIVE:,  Weight:  7 pounds 12 ounces.  Height:  21 inches.  Head circumference:  35 cm.  Temperature:  97.2 degrees.,General:  Well-developed, well-nourished, cooperative, alert, interactive 2-week-old white female in no acute distress.,HEENT:  Atraumatic, normocephalic.  Anterior fontanel is soft and flat.  Pupils are equal, round and reactive.  Sclerae clear.  Red reflexes present bilaterally.  TMs are clear bilaterally.  Oropharynx:  Mucous membranes are moist and pink.,Neck:  Supple, no lymphadenopathy.,Chest:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.  No wheeze or crackles.  Good air exchange.,Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm.  No murmur.  Good pulses bilaterally.,Abdomen:  Soft, nontender, nondistended.  Positive bowel sounds.  No mass nor organomegaly.,Genitourinary:  Tanner I female genitalia.  Femoral pulses are equal bilaterally.  No rash.,Extremities:  Full range of motion.  No cyanosis, clubbing or edema.  Negative Ortolani or Barlow maneuver.,Back:  Straight.  No scoliosis.,Integument:  Warm, dry and pink without lesions.,Neurologic:  Alert.  Good muscle tone and strength.,ASSESSMENT/PLAN:,1.  Well 2-week-old white female.,2.  Anticipatory guidelines for growth, diet, development, safety issues as well as immunizations and visitation schedule.  Gave 2-week well-child check handout and American Academy of Pediatrics book Birth to 5 years to Mom and family.,3.  Call the office or on-call physician if the patient has fever, feeding problems or breathing problems.  Otherwise plan to recheck at 1-month of age.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This 9-month-old Hispanic male comes in today for a 9-month well-child check.  They are visiting from Texas until the end of April 2004.  Mom says he has been doing well since last seen.  He is up-to-date on his immunizations per her report.  She notes that he has developed some bumps on his chest that have been there for about a week.  Two weeks ago he was diagnosed with left otitis media and was treated with antibiotics.  Mom says he has been doing fine since then.  She has no concerns about him.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Significant for term vaginal delivery without complications.,MEDICATIONS: , None.,ALLERGIES:,  None.,SOCIAL HISTORY:,  Lives with parents.  There is no smoking in the household.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Developmentally is appropriate.  No fevers.  No other rashes.  No cough or congestion.  No vomiting or diarrhea.  Eating normally.,OBJECTIVE:,  His weight is 16 pounds 9 ounces.  Height is 26-1/4 inches.  Head circumference is 44.75 cm.  Pulse is 124.  Respirations are 26.  Temperature is 98.1 degrees.  Generally, this is a well-developed, well-nourished, 9-month-old male, who is active, alert, and playful in no acute distress.,HEENT:  Normocephalic, atraumatic.  Anterior fontanel is soft and flat.  Tympanic membranes are clear bilaterally.  Conjunctivae are clear.  Pupils equal, round and reactive to light.  Nares without turbinate edema.  Oropharynx is nonerythematous.,NECK:  Supple, without lymphadenopathy, thyromegaly, carotid bruit, or JVD.,CHEST:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  Regular rate and rhythm, without murmur.,ABDOMEN:  Soft, nontender, nondistended, normoactive bowel sounds.  No masses or organomegaly to palpation.,GU:  Normal male external genitalia.  Uncircumcised penis.  Bilaterally descended testes.  Femoral pulses 2/4.,EXTREMITIES:  Moves all four extremities equally.  Minimal tibial torsion.,SKIN:  Without abnormalities other than five small molluscum contagiosum with umbilical herniation noted on chest.,ASSESSMENT/PLAN:,1.  Well-child check.  Is doing well.  Will recommend a followup well-child check at 1 year of age and immunizations at that time.  Discussed safety issues, including poisons, choking hazards, pet safety, appropriate nutrition with Mom.  She is given a parenting guide handout.,2.  Molluscum contagiosum.  Described the viral etiology of these.  Told her they are self limited, and we will continue to monitor at this time.,3.  Left otitis media, resolved.  Continue to monitor.  We will plan on following up in three months if they are still in the area, or p.r.n.

SUBJECTIVE:,  Patient presents with Mom for first visit to the office for two week well-child check.  Mom has no concerns stating that patient has been doing well overall since dismissal from the hospital.  Nursing every two to three hours with normal voiding and stooling pattern.  She does have a little bit of some gas and Mom has been using Mylicon drops which are helpful.  She is burping well, hiccuping, sneezing and burping appropriately.  Growth and development:  Denver II normal passing all developmental milestones per age in areas of fine motor, gross motor, personal and social interaction and speech and language development.  See Denver II form in the chart.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Mom reports uncomplicated pregnancy and delivery with prenatal care provided by Dr. Hoing.  Delivery at Newton Medical Center at 39 weeks, 5 days gestation.  Birth weight was 3160 g.  Length 49.5 cm.  Head circumference 33 cm.  Infant was delivered to 22-year-old A-positive mom who is G1 P0, now P1.  Infant did well after delivery and was dismissed to home with Mom the following day.  No other hospitalizations.  No surgeries.,ALLERGIES: , None.,MEDICATIONS:,  Gas drops p.r.n.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Significant for cardiovascular problems and hypertension as well as diabetes mellitus on the maternal side of the family.  History of cancer and asthma on the paternal side of the family.  Mom unsure of what type of cancer.,SOCIAL HISTORY:,  Patient lives at home with 22-year-old mother Aubrey Mizel and her parents Bud and Sue Mizel in Newton, Kansas.  Father of the baby, Shivanka Silva age 30, is a full-time student at WSU in Wichita, Kansas and does help with care of the newborn.  There is no smoking in the home.  Family does have one pet dog in home.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  As per HPI; otherwise negative.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital Signs:  Weight 7 pounds, 1-1/5 ounces.  Height 21 inches.  Head circumference 35.8 cm.  Temperature 97.7.,General:  Well-developed, well-nourished, cooperative, alert and interactive 2-week-old female in no acute distress.,HEENT:  Atraumatic, normocephalic.  Anterior fontanel soft and flat.  Pupils equal, round and reactive.  Sclerae clear.  Red reflex present bilaterally.  TMs clear bilaterally.  Oropharynx:  Mucous membranes moist and pink.,Neck:  Supple, no lymphadenopathy.,Chest:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.  No wheeze or crackles.  Good air exchange.,Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm.  No murmur.  Good pulses bilaterally.,Abdomen:  Soft, nontender.  Nondistended.  Positive bowel sounds.  No masses or organomegaly.  Healing umbilicus.,GU:  Tanner I female genitalia.  Femoral pulses equal bilaterally.  No rash.,Extremities:  Full range of motion.  No cyanosis, clubbing or edema.  Negative Ortolani and Barlow maneuver.,Back:  Straight.  No scoliosis.  Some increased pigment over the sacrum.,Integument:  Warm, dry and pink without lesions.,Neurological:  Alert.  Good muscle tone and strength.,ASSESSMENT/PLAN:,1. Well 2-week-old mixed race Caucasian and Middle Eastern descent female.,2. Anticipatory guidance for growth and diet development and safety issues as well as immunizations and visitation schedule.  Gave two week well-child check handout to Mom.  Plan follow up for the one month well-child check or as needed for acute care.  Mom will call for feeding problems, breathing problems or fever.  Otherwise, plan to see at one month.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a 12-year-old male who comes in for healthy checkups and sports physical.  No major concerns today.  He is little bit congested at times.  He has been told he is allergic to grasses.  They have done over-the-counter Claritin and that seems to help but he is always sniffling mother reports.  He has also got some dryness on his face as far as the skin and was wondering what cream he could put on.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Otherwise, reviewed.  Very healthy.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Claritin p.r.n.,ALLERGIES TO MEDICINES:,  None.,FAMILY SOCIAL HISTORY:,  Everyone else is healthy at home currently.,DIETARY:,  He is on whole milk and does a variety of foods.  Growth chart is reviewed with mother.  Voids and stools well.,DEVELOPMENTAL:,  He is in seventh grade and going out for cross-country and track.  He is supposed to be wearing glasses, is not today.  We did not test his vision because he recently saw the eye doctor though we did discuss the need for him to wear glasses with mother.  His hearing was normal today and no concerns with speech.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,General:  A well-developed, well-nourished male in no acute distress.,Dermatologic:  Without rash or lesion.,HEENT:  Head normocephalic and atraumatic.  Eyes:  Pupils equal, round and reactive to light.  Extraocular movements intact.  Red reflexes are present bilaterally.  Optic discs are sharp with normal vasculature.  Ears:  Tympanic membranes are gray, translucent with normal light reflex.  Nares are very congested.  Turbinates swollen and boggy.,Neck:  Supple without masses.,Chest:  Clear to auscultation and percussion, easy respirations.  No accessory muscle use.,Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmurs, rubs, heaves or gallops.,Back:  Symmetric with no scoliosis or kyphosis noted.  Normal flexibility.  Femoral pulses 2+ and symmetric.,Abdomen:  Soft, nontender, nondistended without hepatosplenomegaly.,GU Exam:  Normal Tanner III male.  Testes descended bilaterally.  No abnormal rash, discharge, or scars.,Extremities:  Pink and warm.  Moves all extremities well with normal function and strength in the arms and legs.  Normal balance, station, and gait.  Normal speech.,Neurologic:  Nonfocal with normal speech, station, gait, and balance.,ASSESSMENT:,  Healthy Tanner III male, developing normally.,PLAN:,1.  Diet, growth, safety, drugs, violence, and social competence all discussed.,2.  Immunizations reviewed.,3.  We will place him on Clarinex 5 mg once daily, some Rhinocort-AQ nasal spray one spray each nostril once daily and otherwise discussed the importance of him wearing glasses.,4.  Return to clinic p.r.n. and at two to three years for a physical, otherwise return p.r.n.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This patient was seen in clinic for a school physical.,NUTRITIONAL HISTORY:,  She eats well, takes meats, vegetables, and fruits, but her calcium intake is limited.  She does not drink a whole lot of pop.  Her stools are normal.  Brushes her teeth, sees a dentist.,Developmental History:  Hearing and vision is okay.  She did well in school last year.  She will be going to move to Texas, will be going to Bowie High School.  She will be involved in cheerleading, track, volleyball, and basketball.  She will be also playing the clarinet and will be a freshman in that school.  Her menarche was 06/30/2004.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  She is still on medications for asthma.  She has a problem with her eye lately, this has been bothering her, and she also has had a rash in the left leg.  She had been pulling weeds on 06/25/2004 and then developed a rash on 06/27/2004.,Review of her immunizations, her last tetanus shot was 06/17/2003.,MEDICATIONS:  ,Advair 100/50 b.i.d., Allegra 60 mg b.i.d., Flonase q.d., Xopenex, Intal, and albuterol p.r.n.,ALLERGIES: , No known drug allergies.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital Signs:  Weight:  112 pounds about 40th percentile.  Height:  63-1/4 inches, also the 40th percentile.  Her body mass index was 19.7, 40th percentile.  Temperature:  97.7 tympanic.  Pulse:  80.  Blood pressure:  96/64.,HEENT:  Normocephalic.  Fundi benign.  Pupils equal and reactive to light and accommodation.  No strabismus.  Her vision was 20/20 in both eyes and each with contacts.  Hearing:  She passed that test.  Her TMs are bilaterally clear and nonerythematous.  Throat was clear.  Good mucous membrane moisture and good dentition.,Neck:  Supple.  Thyroid normal sized.  No increased lymphadenopathy in the submandibular nodes and no axillary nodes.,Abdomen:  No hepatosplenomegaly.,Respiratory:  Clear.  No wheezes.  No crackles.  No tachypnea.  No retractions.,Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm.  S1 and S2 normal.  No murmur.,Abdomen:  Soft.  No organomegaly and no masses.,GU:  Normal female genitalia.  Tanner stage 3, breast development and pubic hair development.  Examination of the breasts was negative for any masses or abnormalities or discharge from her areola.,Extremities:  She has good range of motion of upper and lower extremities.  Deep tendon reflexes were 2+/4+ bilaterally and equal.  Romberg negative.,Back:  No scoliosis.  She had good circumduction at shoulder joint and her duck walk was normal.,SKIN:  She did have some rash on the anterior left thigh region and also some on the right lower leg that had Kebner phenomenon and maculopapular vesicular eruption.  No honey crusting was noted on the skin.  She also had some mild rash on the anterior abdominal area near the panty line similar to that rash.  It was raised and blanch with pressure, it was slightly erythematous.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,1.  Sports physical.,2.  The patient received her first hepatitis A vaccine.  She will get a booster in 6 to 12 months.  Prescription for Atarax 10 mg tablets one to two tablets p.o. q.4-6h. p.r.n. and a prescription for Elocon ointment to be applied topically, except for the face, once a day with a refill.  She will be following up with an allergist as soon as she gets to Texas and needs to find a primary care physician.  We talked about anticipatory guidance including breast exam, which we have reviewed with her today, seatbelt use, and sunscreen.  We talked about avoidance of drugs and alcohol and sexual activity.  Continue on her present medications and if her rash is not improved and goes to the neck or the face, she will need to be on PO steroid medication, but presently that was held and moved to treatment with Atarax and Elocon.  Also talked about cleaning her clothes and bedding in case she has any poison ivy oil that is harboring on any clothing.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This 1+ year, black female, new patient in dermatology, sent in for consult from ABC Practice for initial evaluation of a lifelong history of atopic eczema.  The patient’s mom is from Tanzania.  The patient has been treated with Elidel cream b.i.d. for six months but apparently this has stopped working now and it seems to make her more dry and plus she has been using some Johnson's Baby Oil on her.  The patient is a well-developed baby.  Appears stated age.  Overall health is good.,FAMILY, SOCIAL, AND ALLERGY HISTORY: , The patient has eczema and a positive atopic family history.  No psoriasis.  No known drug allergies.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  None.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:, The patient has eczematous changes today on her face, trunk, and extremities.,IMPRESSION:,  Atopic eczema.,TREATMENT:,1.  Discussed condition and treatment with Mom.,2.  Continue bathing twice a week.,3.  Discontinue hot soapy water.,4.  Discontinue Elidel for now.,5.  Add Aristocort cream 0.25%, Polysporin ointment, Aquaphor b.i.d. and p.r.n. itch.  We will see her in one month if not better otherwise on a p.r.n. basis.  Send a letter to ABC Practice program.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is here for a follow-up.  The patient has a history of lupus, currently on Plaquenil 200-mg b.i.d.  Eye report was noted and appreciated.  The patient states that she is having some aches and pains of the hands and elbows that started recently a few weeks ago.  She denied having any trauma.  She states that the pain is bothering her.  She denies having any fevers, chills, or any joint effusion or swelling at this point.  She noted also that there is some increase in her hair loss in the recent times.,OBJECTIVE:,  The patient is alert and oriented.  General physical exam is unremarkable.  Musculoskeletal exam reveals positive tenderness in both lateral epicondyles of both elbows, no effusion.  Hand examination is unremarkable today.  The rest of the musculoskeletal exam is unremarkable.,ASSESSMENT:,  Epicondylitis, both elbows, possibly secondary to lupus flare-up.,PLAN:,  We will inject both elbows with 40-mg of Kenalog mixed with 1 cc of lidocaine.  The posterior approach was chosen under sterile conditions.  The patient tolerated both procedures well.  I will obtain CBC and urinalysis today.  If the patient's pain does not improve, I will consider adding methotrexate to her therapy.,Sample Doctor M.D.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient comes back to see me today.  She is a pleasant 77-year-old Caucasian female who had seen Dr. XYZ with right leg pain.  She has a history of prior laminectomy for spinal stenosis.  She has seen Dr. XYZ with low back pain and lumbar scoliosis post laminectomy syndrome, lumbar spinal stenosis, and clinical right L2 radiculopathy, which is symptomatic.  Dr. XYZ had performed two right L2-L3 transforaminal epidural injections, last one in March 2005.  She was subsequently seen and Dr. XYZ found most of her remaining symptoms are probably coming from her right hip.  An x-ray of the hip showed marked degenerative changes with significant progression of disease compared to 08/04/2004 study.  Dr. XYZ had performed right intraarticular hip injection on 04/07/2005.  She was last seen on 04/15/2005.  At that time, she had the hip injection that helped her briefly with her pain.  She is not sure whether or not she wants to proceed with hip replacement.  We recommend she start using a cane and had continued her on some pain medicines.,The patient comes back to see me today.  She continues to complain of significant pain in her right hip, especially with weightbearing or with movement.  She said she had made an appointment to see an orthopedic surgeon in Newton as it is closer and more convenient for her.  She is taking Ultracet or other the generic it sounds like, up to four times daily.  She states she can take this much more frequently as she still has significant pain symptoms.  She is using a cane to help her ambulate.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Essentially unchanged from her visit of 04/15/2005.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,General:  Reveals a pleasant Caucasian female.,Vital Signs:  Height is 5 feet 4 inches.  Weight is 149 pounds.  She is afebrile.,HEENT:  Benign.,Neck:  Shows functional range of movements with a negative Spurling's.,Musculoskeletal:  Examination shows some mild degenerative joint disease of both knees with grade weakness of her right hip flexors and half-grade weakness of her right hip adductors and right quadriceps, as compared to the left.  Straight leg raises are negative bilaterally.  Posterior tibials are palpable bilaterally.,Skin and Lymphatics:  Examination of the skin does not reveal any additional scars, rashes, cafe au lait spots or ulcers.  No significant lymphadenopathy noted.,Spine:  Examination shows lumbar scoliosis with surgical scar with no major tenderness.  Spinal movements are limited but functional.,Neurological:  She is alert and oriented with appropriate mood and affect.  She has normal tone and coordination.  Reflexes are 2+ and symmetrical.  Sensations are intact to pinprick.,FUNCTIONAL EXAMINATION:,  Gait has a normal stance and swing phase with no antalgic component to it.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Degenerative disk disease of the right hip, symptomatic.,2.  Low back syndrome, lumbar spinal stenosis, clinically right L2 radiculopathy, stable.,3.  Low back pain with lumbar scoliosis post laminectomy syndrome, stable.,4.  Facet and sacroiliac joint syndrome on the right, stable.,5.  Post left hip arthroplasty.,6.  Chronic pain syndrome.,RECOMMENDATIONS:,  The patient is symptomatic primarily on her right hip and is planning on seeing an orthopedic surgeon for possible right hip replacement.  In the interim, her Ultracet is not quite taking care of her pain.  I have asked her to discontinue it and we will start her on Tylenol #3, up to four times a day.  I have written a prescription for this for 120 tablets and two refills.  The patient will call for the refills when she needs them.  I will plan further follow up in six months, sooner if needed.  She voiced understanding and is in agreement with this plan.  Physical exam findings, history of present illness and recommendations were performed with and in agreement with Dr. Goel's findings.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient comes back to see me today.  She is a pleasant 73-year-old Caucasian female who had seen Dr. XYZ with low back pain, lumbar degenerative disc disease, lumbar spondylosis, facet and sacroiliac joint syndrome, lumbar spinal stenosis primarily bilateral recess, intermittent lower extremity radiculopathy, DJD of both knees, bilateral pes anserinus bursitis, and chronic pain syndrome.  Dr. XYZ had performed right and left facet and sacroiliac joint injections, subsequent right L3 to S1 medial branch blocks and radiofrequency ablation on the right from L3 to S1.  She was subsequently seen with some mid back pain and she had right T8-T9 and T9-T10 facet injections on 10/28/2004.  She was last seen on 04/08/2005 with recurrent pain in her low back on the right.  Dr. XYZ repeated her radiofrequency ablation on the right side from L3-S1 on 05/04/2005.,The patient comes back to see me today.  She states that the radiofrequency ablation has helped her significantly there, but she still has one spot in her low back that seems to be hurting her on the right, and seems to be pointing to her right sacroiliac joint.  She is also complaining of pain in both knees.  She says that 20 years ago she had a cortisone shot in her knees, which helped her significantly.  She has not had any x-rays for quite some time.  She is taking some Lortab 7.5 mg tablets, up to four daily, which help her with her pain symptoms.  She is also taking Celebrex through Dr. S’ office.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Essentially unchanged from my visit of 04/08/2005.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,General:  Reveals a pleasant Caucasian female.,Vital Signs:  Height is 5 feet 5 inches.  Weight is 183 pounds.  She is afebrile.,HEENT:  Benign.,Neck:  Shows functional range of movements with a negative Spurling's.,Musculoskeletal:  Examination shows degenerative joint disease of both knees, with medial and lateral joint line tenderness, with tenderness at both pes anserine bursa.  Straight leg raises are negative bilaterally.  Posterior tibials are palpable bilaterally.,Skin and Lymphatics:  Examination of the skin does not reveal any additional scars, rashes, cafe au lait spots or ulcers.  No significant lymphadenopathy noted.,Spine:  Examination shows decreased lumbar lordosis with tenderness that seems to be in her right sacroiliac joint.  She has no other major tenderness.  Spinal movements are limited but functional.,Neurological:  She is alert and oriented with appropriate mood and affect.  She has normal tone and coordination.  Reflexes are 2+ and symmetrical.  Sensation is intact to pinprick.,FUNCTIONAL EXAMINATION:,  Gait has a normal stance and swing phase with no antalgic component to it.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Low back syndrome with lumbar degenerative disc disease, lumbar spinal stenosis, and facet joint syndrome on the right L4-5 and L5-S1.,2.  Improved, spinal right L3-S1 radiofrequency ablation.,3.  Right sacroiliac joint sprain/strain, symptomatic.,4.  Left lumbar facet joint syndrome, stable.,6.  Right thoracic facet joint syndrome, stable.,7.  Lumbar spinal stenosis, primarily lateral recess with intermittent lower extremity radiculopathy, stable.,8.  Degenerative disc disease of both knees, symptomatic.,9.  Pes anserinus bursitis, bilaterally symptomatic.,10.  Chronic pain syndrome.,RECOMMENDATIONS:,  Dr. XYZ and I discussed with the patient her pathology.  She has some symptoms in her low back on the right side at the sacroiliac joint.  Dr. XYZ will plan having her come in and injecting her right sacroiliac joint under fluoroscopy.  She is also having pain in both knees.  We will plan on x-rays of both knees, AP and lateral, and plan on seeing her back on Monday or Friday for possible intraarticular and/or pes anserine bursa injections bilaterally.  I explained the rationale for each of these injections, possible complications and she wishes to proceed.  In the interim, she can continue on Lortab and Celebrex.  We will plan for the follow up following these interventions, sooner if needed.  She voiced understanding and agreement.  Physical exam findings, history of present illness, and recommendations were performed with and in agreement with Dr. Goel's findings.

SUBJECTIVE:  ,The patient seeks evaluation for a second opinion concerning cataract extraction.  She tells me cataract extraction has been recommended in each eye; however, she is nervous to have surgery.  Past ocular surgery history is significant for neurovascular age-related macular degeneration.  She states she has had laser four times to the macula on the right and two times to the left, she sees Dr. X for this.,OBJECTIVE: , On examination, visual acuity with correction measures 20/400 OU.  Manifest refraction does not improve this.  There is no afferent pupillary defect.  Visual fields are grossly full to hand motions.  Intraocular pressure measures 17 mm in each eye.  Slit-lamp examination is significant for clear corneas OU.  There is early nuclear sclerosis in both eyes.  There is a sheet like 1-2+ posterior subcapsular cataract on the left.  Dilated examination shows choroidal neovascularization with subretinal heme and blood in both eyes.,ASSESSMENT/PLAN:  ,Advanced neurovascular age-related macular degeneration OU, this is ultimately visually limiting.  Cataracts are present in both eyes.  I doubt cataract removal will help increase visual acuity; however, I did discuss with the patient, especially in the left, cataract surgery will help Dr. X better visualize the macula for future laser treatment so that her current vision can be maintained.  This information was conveyed with the use of a translator.,

SUBJECTIVE:,  A 6-year-old boy who underwent tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy two weeks ago.  Also, I cleaned out his maxillary sinuses.  Symptoms included loud snoring at night, sinus infections, throat infections, not sleeping well, and fatigue.  The surgery went well, and I had planned for him to stay overnight, but Mom reminds me that by about 8 p.m. the night nurse gotten him to take fluids well and we let him go home then that evening.  He finished up his Augmentin, by a day or two later he was off the Lortab.  Mom has not noticed any unusual voice change.  No swallowing difficulty except he does not like the taste of acidic foods such as tomato sauce.  He has not had any nasal discharge or ever had any bleeding.  He seems to be breathing better.,OBJECTIVE:,  Exam looks good.  The pharynx is well healed.  Tongue mobility is normal.  Voice sounds clear.  Nasal passages reveal no discharge or crusting.,RECOMMENDATION:,  I told Mom it is okay to use some ibuprofen in case his mouth or jaws are still sensitive.  He says it seems to hurt if he opens his mouth real wide such as when he brushes his teeth.  It is okay to chew gum and it is okay to eat crunchy foods such as potato chips.  The pathologist described the expected changes of chronic sinusitis and chronic hypertrophic tonsillitis and adenoiditis, and there were no atypical findings on the laboratories.,I am glad he has healed up well.  There are no other restrictions or limitations.  I told Mom, I had written to Dr. XYZ to let her know of the findings.  The child will continue his regular followup visits with his family doctor, and I told Mom I would be happy to see him anytime if needed.  He did very well after surgery and he seems to feel better and breathe a lot better after his throat and sinus procedure.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 68-year-old white female who presents for complete physical, Pap and breast exam.  Her last Pap smear was 05/02/2002.  Her only complaint is that she has had some occasional episodes of some midchest pain that seems to go to her back, usually occurs at rest.  Has awakened her at night on occasion and only last about 15 to 20 minutes.  Denies nausea, vomiting, diaphoresis or shortness of breath with it.  This has not happened in almost two months.  She had a normal EKG one year ago.  Otherwise, has been doing quite well.  Did quite well with her foot surgery with Dr. Clayton.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Reactive airway disease; rheumatoid arthritis, recent surgery on her hands and feet; gravida 4, para 5, with one set of twins, all vaginal deliveries; iron deficiency anemia; osteoporosis; and hypothyroidism.,MEDICATIONS:,  Methotrexate 2.5 mg five weekly, Fosamax 70 mg weekly, folic acid daily, amitriptyline 15 mg daily, Synthroid 0.088 mg daily, calcium two in the morning and two at noon, multivitamin daily, baby aspirin daily and Colace one to three b.i.d.,ALLERGIES:,  None.,SOCIAL HISTORY:,  She is married.  Denies tobacco, alcohol and drug use.  She is not employed outside the home.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Unremarkable.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  HEENT, pulmonary, cardiovascular, GI, GU, musculoskeletal, neurologic, dermatologic, constitutional and psychiatric are all negative except for HPI.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital Signs:  Weight 146.  Blood pressure 100/64.  Pulse 80.  Respirations 16.  Temperature 97.7.,General:  She is a well-developed, well-nourished white female in no acute distress.,HEENT:  Grossly within normal limits.,Neck:  Supple.  No lymphadenopathy.  No thyromegaly.,Chest:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.,Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm.,Abdomen:  Positive bowel sounds, soft and nontender.  No hepatosplenomegaly.,Breasts:  No nipple discharge.  No lumps or masses palpated.  No dimpling of the skin.  No axillary lymph nodes palpated.  Self-breast exam discussed and encouraged.,Pelvic:  Normal female genitalia.  Atrophic vaginal mucosa.  No cervical lesions.  No cervical motion tenderness.  No adnexal tenderness or masses palpated.,Rectal:  Normal sphincter tone.  No stool present in the vault.  No rectal masses palpated.,Extremities:  No cyanosis, clubbing or edema.  She does have obvious rheumatoid arthritis of her hands.,Neurologic:  Grossly intact.,ASSESSMENT/PLAN:,1.  Chest pain.  The patient will evaluate when it happens next; what she has been eating, what activities she has been performing.  She had normal ECG one year ago.  In fact this does not sound cardiac in nature.  We will not do further cardiac workup at this time.  Did discuss with her she may be having some GI reflux type symptoms.,2.  Hypothyroidism.  We will recheck TSH to make sure she is on the right amount of medication at this time, making adjustments as needed.,3.  Rheumatoid arthritis.  Continue her methotrexate as prescribed by Dr. Mortensen, and follow up with Dr. XYZ as needed.,4.  Osteoporosis.  It is time for her to have a repeat DEXA at this time and that will be scheduled.,5.  Health care maintenance, Pap smear was obtained today.  The patient will be scheduled for mammogram.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This 45-year-old gravida 3, para 2, SAB 1 white female presents for exam and Pap.  Last Pap was a year ago and normal.  LMP was 08/29/2004.  Her cycles are usually regular, although that one came about a week early.  Her husband has had a vasectomy.  Overall, she is feeling well.,Health history form was reviewed.  There has been no change in her personal history.  She notes that a brother who was treated 12 years ago for a brain tumor has had a recurrence and had surgery again.  Social history is unchanged.,HEALTH HABITS: , She states that for a while she was really exercising regularly and eating lots of fruits and vegetables.  Right now, she is not doing nearly as well.  She has perhaps two dairy servings daily, trying to cut down.  She is not exercising at all and fruit and vegetable intake varies.  She is a nonsmoker.  Last cholesterol was in 2003 and was normal.  She had a mammogram which was normal recently.  She is current on her tetanus update.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,HEENT:  She feels as though she may have some allergies at night.  Most of her symptoms occur then, not during the day.  She will wake up with some congestion, sneezing, and then rhinorrhea.  Currently, she uses Tylenol Sinus.  Today, her symptoms are much better.  We did have rain this morning.,Respiratory and CV:  Negative.,GI:  She tends to have a little gas which is worse when she is eating more fruits and vegetables.  She had been somewhat constipated but that is better.,GU:  Negative.,Dermatologic:  She noticed an area of irritation on her right third finger on the ulnar side at the PIP joint.  It was very sensitive to water.  It seems to be slowly improving.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital Signs:  Her weight was 154 pounds, which is down 2 pounds.  Blood pressure 104/66.,General:  She is a well-developed, well-nourished, pleasant white female in no distress.,Neck:  Supple without adenopathy.  No thyromegaly or nodules palpable.,Lungs:  Clear to A&P.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmurs.,Breasts:  Symmetrical without masses, nipple, or skin retraction, discharge, or axillary adenopathy.,Abdomen:  Soft without organomegaly, masses, or tenderness.,Pelvic:  Reveals no external lesions.  The cervix is parous.  Pap smear done.  Uterus is anteverted and normal in size, shape, and consistency, and nontender.  No adnexal enlargement.,Extremities:  Examination of her right third finger shows an area of eczematous dermatitis approximately 2 cm in length on the ulnar side.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Normal GYN exam.,2.  Rhinitis, primarily in the mornings.  Vasomotor versus allergic.,3.  Eczematous dermatitis on right third finger.,PLAN:,1.  Discussed vasomotor rhinitis.  I suggested she try Ayr Nasal saline gel.  Another option would be a steroid spray and a sample of Nasonex is given to use two sprays in each nostril daily.,2.  Exam with Pap annually.,3.  Hydrocortisone cream to be applied to the area of eczematous dermatitis.,4.  Discussed nutrition and exercise.  I recommended at least five fruits and vegetables daily, no more than three dairy servings daily, and regular exercise at least three times a week.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is an 18-year-old white female who presents for complete physical, Pap, and breast exam and to have paperwork filled out for college.  She denies any problems at this time.  Her last Pap smear was 06/25/2003 and was normal.  She is requesting to switch from Ortho-Tri-Cyclen to Seasonale at this time.  We did discuss that she may have increased episodes of breakthrough bleeding.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Fever blisters and allergic rhinitis.,MEDICATIONS: , Allegra 180 mg q.d., trazodone 50 mg p.r.n. q.h.s., and Ortho-Tri-Cyclen.,ALLERGIES:,  None.,SOCIAL HISTORY:,  Denies tobacco or drug use, rare alcohol use.  She is sexually active and has had one partner.,FAMILY HISTORY:  ,Positive for rheumatoid arthritis.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  HEENT, pulmonary, cardiovascular, GI, GU, musculoskeletal, neurologic, dermatologic, constitutional, and psychiatric all negative except for HPI.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital Signs:  Height 5 feet 6 inches.  Weight 153 pounds.  Blood pressure 106/72.  Pulse 68.  Respirations 12.  Temperature 97.5.  Last menstrual period 05/30/2004.,General:  She is a well-developed, well-nourished white female in no acute distress.,HEENT:  Tympanic membranes unremarkable.  Oropharynx nonerythematous.  Pupils equal, round, and reactive to light.  Extraocular muscles intact.,Neck:  Supple.  No lymphadenopathy and no thyromegaly.,Chest:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.,CV:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur.,Abdomen:  Positive bowel sounds.  Soft and nontender.  No hepatosplenomegaly.,Breasts:  No nipple discharge.  No lumps or masses palpated.  No dimpling of the skin.  No axillary lymph nodes palpated.  Self-breast exam discussed and encouraged.,Pelvic:  Normal female genitalia.  Normal vaginal rugation.  No cervical lesions.  No cervical motion tenderness.  No adnexal tenderness or masses palpated.,Extremities:  No cyanosis, clubbing, or edema.,Neurologic:  2+/4 DTRs in all extremities.  5/5 motor strength in all extremities.  Negative Romberg.,Musculoskeletal:  No abnormalities or laxity noted in any of her joints.,ASSESSMENT/PLAN:,1.  Complete physical, Pap, and breast exam completed.,2.  School physical form completed and returned to the patient.,3.  Hepatitis B second injection will be given today.,4.  Contraceptive surveillance.  We will put patient to Seasonale to start at the end of this cycle a pill.,5.  Allergic rhinitis.  Prescription was given for Allegra 180 mg q.d.  #30 carrying refills for her to take with her school Cowley County Community College.,6.  Insomnia.  Prescription for trazodone 50 mg p.r.n. q.h.s. was given for her to take with her to school.  She will follow up as needed.

SUBJECTIVE: , The patient is a 55-year-old African-American male that was last seen in clinic on 07/29/2008 with diagnosis of new onset seizures and an MRI scan, which demonstrated right contrast-enhancing temporal mass.  Given the characteristics of this mass and his new onset seizures, it is significantly concerning for a high-grade glioma.  ,OBJECTIVE: , The patient is alert and oriented times three, GCS of 15.  Cranial nerves II to XII are grossly intact.  Motor exam demonstrates 5/5 strength in all four extremities.  Sensation is intact to light touch, pain, temperature, and proprioception.  Cerebellar exam is intact.  Gait is normal and tandem on heels and toes.  Speech is appropriate.  Judgment is intact.  Pupils are equal and reactive to light.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: , The patient is a 55-year-old African-American male with a new diagnosis of rim-enhancing right temporal mass.  Given the characteristics of the MRI scan, it is highly likely that he demonstrates high-grade glioma and concerning for glioblastoma multiforme.  We have discussed in length the possible benefits of biopsy, surgical resection, medical management, as well as chemotherapy, radiation treatments, and doing nothing.  Given the high probability that the mass represents a high-grade glioma, the patient, after weighing the risks and the benefits of surgery, has agreed to undergo a surgical biopsy and resection of the mass as well as concomitant chemotherapy and radiation as the diagnosis demonstrates a high-grade glioma.  The patient has signed consent for his right temporal craniotomy for biopsy and likely resection of right temporal brain tumor.  He agrees that he will be n.p.o. after mid night on Wednesday night.  He is sent for preoperative assessment with the Anesthesiology tomorrow morning.  He has undergone vocational rehab assessment.

SUBJECTIVE: , This patient presents to the office today because of some problems with her right hand.  It has been going tingling and getting numb periodically over several weeks.  She just recently moved her keyboard down at work.  She is hoping that will help.  She is worried about carpal tunnel.  She does a lot of repetitive type activities.  It is worse at night.  If she sleeps on it a certain way, she will wake up and it will be tingling then she can usually shake out the tingling, but nonetheless it is very bothersome for her.  It involves mostly the middle finger, although, she says it also involves the first and second digits on the right hand.  She has some pain in her thumb as well.  She thinks that could be arthritis.,OBJECTIVE: , Weight 213.2 pounds, blood pressure 142/84, pulse 92, respirations 16.  General:  The patient is nontoxic and in no acute distress.  Musculoskeletal:  The right hand was examined.  It appears to be within normal limits and the appearance is similar to the left hand.  She has good and equal grip strength noted bilaterally.  She has negative Tinel's bilaterally.  She has a positive Phalen's test.  The fingers on the right hand are neurovascularly intact with a normal capillary refill.,ASSESSMENT:  ,Numbness and tingling in the right upper extremity, intermittent and related to the positioning of the wrist.  I suspect carpal tunnel syndrome.,PLAN:  ,The patient is going to use Anaprox double strength one pill every 12 hours with food as well as a cock-up wrist splint.  We are going to try this for two weeks and if the condition is still present, then we are going to proceed with EMG test at that time.  She is going to let me know.  While she is here, I am going to also get her the blood test she needs for her diabetes.  I am noting that her blood pressure is elevated, but improved from the last visit.  I also noticed that she has lost a lot of weight.  She is working on diet and exercise and she is doing a great job.  Right now for the blood pressure we are going to continue to observe as she carries forward additional measures in her diet and exercise to lose more weight and I expect the blood pressure will continue to improve.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 75-year-old female who comes in today with concerns of having a stroke.  She states she feels like she has something in her throat.  She started with some dizziness this morning and some left hand and left jaw numbness.  She said that she apparently had something about three weeks ago where she was dizzy and ended up falling down and she saw Dr. XYZ for that who gave her some Antivert.  She said that today though she woke up in the middle of the night and her left hand was numb and she was having numbness on the left side of her face, as well as the left side of her neck.  She said she had an earache a day or so ago.  She has not had any cold symptoms.,ALLERGIES:,  Demerol and codeine.,MEDICATIONS: , Lotensin, Lopid, metoprolol, and Darvocet.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  The patient says that she feels little bit nauseated at times.  She denies chest pain or shortness of breath and again feels like she has something in her throat.  She has been able to swallow liquids okay.  She said that she did brush her teeth this morning and did not have any fluid dripping out of her mouth.  She does say that she occasionally has numbness in her left hand prior to today.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,General:  She is awake and alert, no acute distress.,Vital Signs:  Blood pressure:  175/86.  Temperature:  She is afebrile.  Pulse:  78.  Respiratory rate:  20.  O2 sat:  93% on room air.,HEENT:  Her TMs are normal bilaterally.  Posterior pharynx is unremarkable.  It should be noted that her uvula did not deviate and neither did her tongue.  When she smiles though she has some drooping of the left side of her face, as well as some mild nasolabial fold flattening.,Neck:  Without adenopathy or thyromegaly.  Carotids pulses are brisk without bruits.,Lungs:  Clear to auscultation.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur.,Extremities:  Her muscle strength is symmetrical and intact bilaterally.  DTRs are 2+/4+ bilaterally and muscle strength is intact in the upper extremities.  She has a positive Tinel’s sign on her left wrist.,Neurological:  I also took monofilament and she could sense it easily when testing her sensation on her face.,ASSESSMENT:,  Bell’s Palsy.,PLAN:,  We did get an EKG showed some ST segment changes anterolaterally.  The only EKG I have here is from 1998 and she actually had bypass in 1999, but there certainly does not appear to be anything acute on his EKG.  I assured her that it does not look like she has a stroke.  If she wants to prevent a stroke, obviously quitting her smoking would help.  It should be noted she also takes Synthroid and Zocor.  We are going to give her Valtrex 1 g t.i.d. for seven days and then if she starts noticing any other drooping or worsening of her symptoms on the left side of her face, she needs to come back, but I will not start her on steroids at this time, which she agreed with.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient returns today for a followup.  She was recently in the hospital and was found to be septic from nephrolithiasis.  This was all treated.  She did require a stent in the left ureter.  Dr. XYZ took care of this.  She had a stone, which was treated with lithotripsy.  She is now back here for followup.  I had written out all of her medications with their dose and schedule on a progress sheet.  I had given her instructions regarding follow up here and follow with Dr. F.  Unfortunately, that piece of paper was lost.  Somehow between the hospital and home she lost it and has not been able to find it.  She has no followup appointment with Dr. F.  The day after she was dismissed, her nephew called me stating that the prescriptions were lost, instructions were lost, etc.  Later she apparently found the prescriptions and they were filled.  She tells me she is taking the antibiotic, which I believe was Levaquin and she has one more to take.  She had no clue as to seeing Dr. XYZ again.  She says she is still not feeling very well and feels somewhat sick like.  She has no clue as to still having a ureteral stent.  I explained this to she and her husband again today.,ALLERGIES: , Sulfa.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  As I have given are Levaquin, Prinivil 20 mg a day, Bumex 0.5 mg a day, Levsinex 0.375 mg a day, cimetidine 400 mg a day, potassium chloride 8 mEq a day, and atenolol 25 mg a day.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  She says she is voiding okay.  She denies fever, chills, or sweats.,OBJECTIVE:,General:  She was able to get up on the table by herself although she is quite unstable.,Vital Signs:  Blood pressure was okay at about 120/70 by me.,Neck:  Supple.,Lungs:  Clear.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm.,Abdomen:  Soft.,Extremities:  There is no edema.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Hypertension controlled.,2.  Nephrolithiasis status post lithotripsy and stent placed in the left ureter by Dr. F.,3.  Urinary incontinence.,4.  Recent sepsis.,PLAN:,1.  I discussed at length with she and her husband again the need to get into at least an assisted living apartment.,2.  I gave her instructions, in writing, to stop by Dr. F’s office on the way out today to get an appointment for followup regarding her stent.,3.  See me back here in two months.,4.  I made no changes in her medications.

SUBJECTIVE: , I am following the patient today for immune thrombocytopenia.  Her platelets fell to 10 on 01/09/07 and shortly after learning of that result, I increased her prednisone to 60 mg a day.  Repeat on 01/16/07 revealed platelets up at 43.  No bleeding problems have been noted.  I have spoken with her hematologist who recommends at this point we decrease her prednisone to 40 mg for 3 days and then go down to 20 mg a day.  The patient had been on 20 mg every other day at least for a while, and her platelets hovered at least above 20 or so.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: , Vitals:  As in chart.  The patient is alert, pleasant, and cooperative.  She is in no apparent distress.  The petechial areas on her legs have resolved.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: , Patient with improvement of her platelet count on burst of prednisone.  We will decrease her prednisone to 40 mg for 3 days, then go down to 20 mg a day.  Basically thereafter, over time, I may try to sneak it back a little bit further.  She is on medicines for osteoporosis including bisphosphonate and calcium with vitamin D.  We will arrange to have a CBC drawn weekly.,

SUBJECTIVE:  ,This 68-year-old man presents to the emergency department for three days of cough, claims that he has brought up some green and grayish sputum.  He says he does not feel short of breath.  He denies any fever or chills.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,HEENT:  Denies any severe headache or sore throat.,CHEST:  No true pain.,GI:  No nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea.,PAST HISTORY:,  He states that he is on Coumadin because he had a cardioversion done two months ago for atrial fibrillation.  He also lists some other medications.  I do have his medications list.  He is on Pacerone, Zaroxolyn, albuterol inhaler, Neurontin, Lasix, and several other medicines.  Those are the predominant medicines.  He is not a diabetic.  The past history otherwise, he has had smoking history, but he quit several years ago and denies any COPD or emphysema.  No one else in the family is sick.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,GENERAL:  The patient appears comfortable.  He did not appear to be in any respiratory distress.  He was alert.  I heard him cough once during the entire encounter.  He did not bring up any sputum at that time.,VITAL SIGNS:  His temperature is 98, pulse 71, respiratory rate 18, blood pressure 122/57, and pulse ox is 95% on room air.,HEENT:  Throat was normal.,RESPIRATORY:  He was breathing normally.  There was clear and equal breath sounds.  He was speaking in full sentences.  There was no accessory muscle use.,HEART:  Sounded regular.,SKIN:  Normal color, warm and dry.,NEUROLOGIC:  Neurologically he was alert.,IMPRESSION: , Viral syndrome, which we have been seeing in many cases throughout the week.  The patient asked me about antibiotics and I did not see a need to do this since he did not appear to have an infection other than viral given his normal temperature, normal pulse, normal respiratory rate, and near normal oxygen.  The patient being on Coumadin I explained to him that unless there was a solid reason to put him on antibiotics, he would be advised not to do so because antibiotics can alter the gut floor causing the INR to increase while on Coumadin which may cause serious bleeding.  The patient understands this.  I then asked him if the cough was annoying him, he said it was.  I offered him a cough syrup, which he agreed to take.  The patient was then discharged with Tussionex Pennkinetic a hydrocodone time-release cough syrup.  I told to check in three days, if the symptoms were not getting better.  The patient appeared to be content with this treatment and was discharged in approximately 30 to 45 minutes later.  His wife calls me very angry that I did not give him antibiotics.  I explained her exactly what I explained to him that they were not indicative at this time, and she became very upset saying that they came there specifically for antibiotics and I explained again that antibiotics are not indicated for viral infection and that I did not think he had a bacterial infection.,DIAGNOSIS: , Viral respiratory illness.

SUBJECTIVE:,  Mom brings patient in today because of sore throat starting last night.  Eyes have been very puffy.  He has taken some Benadryl when all of this congestion started but with a sudden onset just yesterday.  He has had low-grade fever and just felt very run down, appearing very tired.  He is still eating and drinking well, and his voice has been hoarse but no coughing.  No shortness of breath, vomiting, diarrhea or abdominal pain.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Unremarkable.  There is no history of allergies.  He does have some history of some episodes of high blood pressure, and his weight is up about 14 pounds from the last year.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Noncontributory.  No one else at home is sick.,OBJECTIVE:,General:  A 13-year-old male appearing tired but in no acute distress.,Neck:  Supple without adenopathy.,HEENT:  Ear canals clear.  TMs, bilaterally, gray in color.  Good light reflex.  Oropharynx pink and moist.  No erythema or exudate.  Some drainage is seen in the posterior pharynx.  Nares:  Swollen, red.  No drainage seen.  No sinus tenderness.  Eyes are clear.,Chest:  Respirations are regular and nonlabored.,Lungs:  Clear to auscultation throughout.,Heart:  Regular rhythm without murmur.,Skin:  Warm, dry and pink, moist mucous membranes.  No rash.,LABORATORY:,  Strep test is negative.  Strep culture is negative.,RADIOLOGY:,  Water's View of the sinuses is negative for any sinusitis or acute infection.,ASSESSMENT:,  Upper respiratory infection.,PLAN:,  At this point just treat symptomatically.  I gave him some samples of Levall for the congestion and as an expectorant.  Push fluids and rest.  May use ibuprofen or Tylenol for discomfort.

SUBJECTIVE: , I am following the patient today for immune thrombocytopenia.  Her platelets fell to 10 on 01/09/07 and shortly after learning of that result, I increased her prednisone to 60 mg a day.  Repeat on 01/16/07 revealed platelets up at 43.  No bleeding problems have been noted.  I have spoken with her hematologist who recommends at this point we decrease her prednisone to 40 mg for 3 days and then go down to 20 mg a day.  The patient had been on 20 mg every other day at least for a while, and her platelets hovered at least above 20 or so.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: , Vitals:  As in chart.  The patient is alert, pleasant, and cooperative.  She is in no apparent distress.  The petechial areas on her legs have resolved.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: , Patient with improvement of her platelet count on burst of prednisone.  We will decrease her prednisone to 40 mg for 3 days, then go down to 20 mg a day.  Basically thereafter, over time, I may try to sneak it back a little bit further.  She is on medicines for osteoporosis including bisphosphonate and calcium with vitamin D.  We will arrange to have a CBC drawn weekly.,

SUBJECTIVE: , This patient presents to the office today with his mom for checkup.  He used to live in the city.  He used to go to college down in the city.  He got addicted to drugs.  He decided it would be a good idea to get away from the "bad crowd" and come up and live with his mom.  He has a history of doing heroin.  He was injecting into his vein.  He was seeing a physician in the city.  They were prescribing methadone for some time.  He says that did help.  He was on 10 mg of methadone.  He was on it for three to four months.  He tried to wean down on the methadone a couple of different times, but failed.  He has been intermittently using heroin.  He says one of the big problems is that he lives in a household full of drug users and he could not get away from it.  All that changed now that he is living with his mom.  The last time he did heroin was about seven to eight days ago.  He has not had any methadone in about a week either.  He is coming in today specifically requesting methadone.  He also admits to being depressed.  He is sad a lot and down.  He does not have much energy.  He does not have the enthusiasm.  He denies any suicidal or homicidal ideations at the present time.  I questioned him on the symptoms of bipolar disorder and he does not seem to have those symptoms.  His past medical history is significant for no medical problems.  Surgical history, he voluntarily donated his left kidney.  Family and social history were reviewed per the nursing notes.  His allergies are no known drug allergies.  Medications, he takes no medications regularly.,OBJECTIVE: , His weight is 164 pounds, blood pressure 108/60, pulse 88, respirations 16, and temperature was not taken.  General:  He is nontoxic and in no acute distress.  Psychiatric:  Alert and oriented times 3.  Skin:  I examined his upper extremities.  He showed me his injection sites.  I can see marks, but they seem to be healing up nicely.  I do not see any evidence of cellulitis.  There is no evidence of necrotizing fasciitis.,ASSESSMENT: , Substance abuse.,PLAN: , I had a long talk with the patient and his mom.  I am not prescribing him any narcotics or controlled substances.  I am not in the practice of trading one addiction for another.  It has been one week without any sort of drugs at all.  I do not think he needs weaning.  I think right now it is mostly psychological, although there still could be some residual physical addiction.  However, once again I do not believe it to be necessary to prescribe him any sort of controlled substance at the present time.  I do believe that his depression needs to be treated.  I gave him fluoxetine 20 mg one tablet daily.  I discussed the side effects in detail.  I did also warn him that all antidepressant medications carry an increased risk of suicide.  If he should start to feel any of these symptoms, he should call #911 or go to the emergency room immediately.  If he has any problems or side effects, he was also directed to call me here at the office.  After-hours, he can go to the emergency room or call #911.  I am going to see him back in three weeks for the depression.  I gave him the name and phone number of Behavioral Health and I told him to call so that he can get into rehabilitation program or at least a support group.  We are unable to make a referral for him to do that.  He has to call on his own.  He has no insurance.  However, I think fluoxetine is very affordable.  He can get it for $4 per month at Wal-Mart.  His mom is going to keep an eye on him as well.  He is going to be staying there.  It sounds like he is looking for a job.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This 47-year-old white female presents with concern about possible spider bite to the left side of her neck.  She is not aware of any specific injury.  She noticed a little tenderness and redness on her left posterior shoulder about two days ago.  It seems to be getting a little bit larger in size, and she saw some red streaks extending up her neck.  She has had no fever.  The area is very minimally tender, but not particularly so.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Generic Maxzide, Climara patch, multivitamin, Tums, Claritin, and vitamin C.,ALLERGIES:,  No known medicine allergies.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital Signs:  Weight is 150 pounds.  Blood pressure 122/82.,Extremities:  Examination of the left posterior shoulder near the neckline is an area of faint erythema which is 6 cm in diameter.  In the center is a tiny mark which could certainly be an insect or spider bite.  There is no eschar there, but just a tiny marking.  There are a couple of erythematous streaks extending towards the neck.,ASSESSMENT:,  Possible insect bite with lymphangitis.,PLAN:,1.  Duricef 1 g daily for seven days.,2.  Cold packs to the area.,3.  Discussed symptoms that were suggestive of the worsening, in which case she would need to call me.,4.  Incidentally, she has noticed a little bit of dryness and redness on her eyelids, particularly the upper ones’ and the lower lateral areas.  I suspect she has a mild contact dermatitis and suggested hydrocortisone 1% cream to be applied sparingly at bedtime only.

SUBJECTIVE: , The patient is a 20-year-old Caucasian male admitted via ABCD Hospital Emergency Department for evaluation of hydrocarbon aspiration.  The patient ingested "tiki oil" (kerosene, liquid paraffin, citronella oil) approximately two days prior to admission.  He subsequently developed progressive symptoms of dyspnea, pleuritic chest pain, hemoptysis with nausea and vomiting.  He was seen in the ABCD Hospital Emergency Department, toxic appearing with an abnormal chest x-ray demonstrating bilateral lower lobe infiltrates, greater on the right.  He had a temperature of 38.3 with tachycardia approximating 130.  White count was 59,300 with a marked left shift.  Arterial blood gases showed pH 7.48, pO2 79, and pCO2 35.  He was admitted for further medical management.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Aplastic crisis during childhood requiring splenectomy and a cholecystectomy at age 9.,DRUG ALLERGIES: , NONE KNOWN.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS: , None.,FAMILY HISTORY:  ,Noncontributory.,SOCIAL HISTORY:  ,The patient works at a local Christmas tree farm.  He smokes cigarettes approximately one pack per day.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Ten-system review significant for nausea, vomiting, fever, hemoptysis, and pleuritic chest pain.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION,GENERAL:  A toxic-appearing 20-year-old Caucasian male, in mild respiratory distress.,VITAL SIGNS:  Blood pressure 122/74, pulse 130 and regular, respirations 24, temperature 38.3, and oxygen saturation 93%.,SKIN:  No rashes, petechiae or ecchymoses.,HEENT:  Within normal limits.  Pupils are equally round and reactive to light and accommodation.  Ears clean.  Throat clean.,NECK:  Supple without thyromegaly.  Lymph nodes are nonpalpable.,CHEST:  Decreased breath sounds bilaterally, greater on the right, at the right base.,CARDIAC:  No murmur or gallop rhythm.,ABDOMEN:  Mild direct diffuse tenderness without rebound.  No detectable masses, pulsations or organomegaly.,EXTREMITIES:  No edema.  Pulses are equal and full bilaterally.,NEUROLOGIC:  Nonfocal.,DATABASE: , Chest x-ray, bilateral lower lobe pneumonia, greater on the right.  EKG, sinus tachycardia, rate of 130, normal intervals, no ST changes.  Arterial blood gases on 2 L of oxygen, pH 7.48, pO2 79, and pCO2 35.,BLOOD STUDIES: , Hematocrit is 43, WBC 59,300 with a left shift, and platelet count 394,000.  Sodium is 130, potassium 3.8, chloride 97, bicarbonate 24, BUN 14, creatinine 0.8, random blood sugar 147, and calcium 9.4.,IMPRESSION,1.  Hydrocarbon aspiration.,2.  Bilateral pneumonia with pneumonitis secondary to aspiration.,3.  Asplenic patient.,PLAN,1.  ICU monitoring.,2.  O2 protocol.,3.  Hydration.,4.  Antiemetic therapy.,5.  Parenteral antibiotics.,6.  Prophylactic proton pump inhibitors.,The patient will need ICU monitoring and Pulmonary Medicine evaluation pending clinical course.,

SUBJECTIVE:  ,This patient presents to the office today for a checkup.  He has several things to go over and discuss.  First he is sick.  He has been sick for a month intermittently, but over the last couple of weeks it is worse.  He is having a lot of yellow phlegm when he coughs.  It feels likes it is in his chest.  He has been taking Allegra-D intermittently, but he is almost out and he needs a refill.  The second problem, his foot continues to breakout.  It seems like it was getting a lot better and now it is bad again.  He was diagnosed with tinea pedis previously, but he is about out of the Nizoral cream.  I see that he is starting to breakout again now that the weather is warmer and I think that is probably not a coincidence.  He works in the flint and it is really hot where he works and it has been quite humid lately.  The third problem is that he has a wart or a spot that he thinks is a wart on the right middle finger.  He is interested in getting that frozen today.  Apparently, he tells me I froze a previous wart on him in the past and it went away.  Next, he is interested in getting some blood test done.  He specifically mentions the blood test for his prostate, which I informed him is called the PSA.  He is 50 years old now.  He will also be getting his cholesterol checked again because he has a history of high cholesterol.  He made a big difference in his cholesterol by quitting smoking, but unfortunately after taking his social history today he tells me that he is back to smoking.  He says it is difficult to quit.  He tells me he did quit chewing tobacco.  I told him to keep trying to quit smoking.  ,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  General:  With this illness he has had no problems with fever.  HEENT:  Some runny nose, more runny nose than congestion.  Respiratory:  Denies shortness of breath.  Skin:  He has a peeling skin on the bottom of his feet, mostly the right foot that he is talking about today.  At times it is itchy.,OBJECTIVE: , His weight is 238.4 pounds, blood pressure 128/74, temperature 97.8, pulse 80, and respirations 16.  General exam:  The patient is nontoxic and in no acute distress.  Ears:  Tympanic membranes pearly gray bilaterally.  Mouth:  No erythema, ulcers, vesicles, or exudate noted.  Neck is supple.  No lymphadenopathy.  Lungs:  Clear to auscultation.  No rales, rhonchi, or wheezing.  Cardiac:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur.  Extremities:  No edema, cyanosis, or clubbing.  Skin exam:  I checked out the bottom of his right foot.  He has peeling skin visible consistent with tinea pedis.  On the anterior aspect of the right third finger there is a small little raised up area that I believe represents a wart.  The size of this wart is approximately 3 mm in diameter.,ASSESSMENT:  ,1.  Upper respiratory tract infection, persistent.,2.  Tinea pedis.,3.  Wart on the finger.,4.  Hyperlipidemia.,5.  Tobacco abuse.,PLAN: , The patient is getting a refill on Allegra-D.  I am giving him a refill on the Nizoral 2% cream that he should use to the foot area twice a day.  I gave him instructions on how to keep the foot clean and dry because I think the reason we are dealing with this persistent problem is the fact that his feet are hot and sweaty a lot because of his work.  His wart has been present for some time now and he would like to get it frozen.  I offered him the liquid nitrogen treatment and he did agree to it.  I used liquid nitrogen after a verbal consent was obtained from the patient to freeze the wart.  He tolerated the procedure very well.  I froze it once and I allowed for a 3 mm freeze zone.  I gave him verbal wound care instructions after the procedure.  Lastly, when he is fasting I am going to send him to the lab with a slip, which I gave him today for a basic metabolic profile, CBC, fasting lipid profile, and a screening PSA test.  Lastly, for the upper respiratory tract infection, I am giving him amoxicillin 500 mg three times a day for 10 days.

SUBJECTIVE: , I am following the patient today for multiple issues.  He once again developed gross hematuria, which was unprovoked.  His Coumadin has been held.  The patient has known BPH and is on Flomax.  He is being treated with Coumadin because of atrial fibrillation and stroke.  This is the second time he has had significant gross hematuria this month.  He also fell about a week ago and is complaining of buttock pain and leg pain.  We did get x-rays of hips, knees, and ankles.  Clearly, he has significant degenerative disease in all these areas.  No fractures noted however.  He felt that the pain is pretty severe and particularly worse in the morning.  His sinuses are bothering him.  He wonders about getting some nasal saline spray.  We talked about Coumadin, stroke risk, etc. in the setting of atrial fibrillation.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: , Vitals:  As in chart.  The patient is alert, pleasant, and cooperative.  He is not in any apparent distress.  He is comfortable in a seated position.  I did not examine him further today.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,1.  Hematuria.  Coumadin needs to be stopped, so we will evaluate what is going on, which is probably just some BPH.  We will also obtain a repeat UA as he did describe to me some dysuria.  However, I do not think this would account for the gross hematuria.  He will be started on an aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily.,2.  For the pain we will try him on Lortab.  He will get a Lortab everyday in the morning 5/500 prior to getting out of bed, and then he will have the option of having a few more throughout the day if he requires it.,3.  We will see about getting him set up with massage therapy and/or physical therapy as well for his back pain.,4.  For his sinuses, we will arrange for him to have saline nasal spray at the bedside for p.r.n. use.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is in with several medical problems.  He complains his mouth being sore since last week and also some "trouble with my eyes."  He states that they feel "funny" but he is seeing okay.  He denies any more diarrhea or abdominal pain.  Bowels are working okay.  He denies nausea or diarrhea.  Eating is okay.  He is emptying his bladder okay.  He denies dysuria.  His back is hurting worse.  He complains of right shoulder pain and neck pain over the last week but denies any injury.  He reports that his cough is about the same.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Metronidazole 250 mg q.i.d., Lortab 5/500 b.i.d., Allegra 180 mg daily, Levothroid 100 mcg daily, Lasix 20 mg daily, Flomax 0.4 mg at h.s., aspirin 81 mg daily, Celexa 40 mg daily, verapamil SR 180 mg one and a half tablet daily, Zetia 10 mg daily, Feosol b.i.d.,ALLERGIES: , Lamisil, Equagesic, Bactrim, Dilatrate, cyclobenzaprine.,OBJECTIVE:,General:  He is a well-developed, well-nourished, elderly male in no acute distress.,Vital Signs:  His age is 66.  Temperature:  97.7.  Blood pressure:  134/80.  Pulse:  88.  Weight:  201 pounds.,HEENT:  Head was normocephalic.  Examination of the throat reveals it to be clear.  He does have a few slight red patches on his upper inner lip consistent with yeast dermatitis.,Neck:  Supple without adenopathy or thyromegaly.,Lungs:  Clear.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm.,Extremities:  He has full range of motion of his shoulders but some tenderness to the trapezius over the right shoulder.  Back has limited range of motion.  He is nontender to his back.  Deep tendon reflexes are 2+ bilaterally in lower extremities.  Straight leg raising is positive for back pain on the right side at 90 degrees.,Abdomen:  Soft, nontender without hepatosplenomegaly or mass.  He has normal bowel sounds.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Clostridium difficile enteritis, improved.,2.  Right shoulder pain.,3.  Chronic low back pain.,4.  Yeast thrush.,5.  Coronary artery disease.,6.  Urinary retention, which is doing better.,PLAN:,  I put him on Diflucan 200 mg daily for seven days.  We will have him stop his metronidazole little earlier at his request.  He can drop it down to t.i.d. until Friday of this week and then finish Friday’s dose and then stop the metronidazole and that will be more than a 10-day course.  I ordered physical therapy to evaluate and treat his right shoulder and neck as indicated x 6 visits and he may see Dr. XYZ p.r.n. for his eye discomfort and his left eye pterygium which is noted on exam (minimal redness is noted to the conjunctiva on the left side but no mattering was seen.)  Recheck with me in two to three weeks.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient has recently had an admission for pneumonia with positive blood count.  She was treated with IV antibiotics and p.o. antibiotics; she improved on that.  She was at home and doing quite well for approximately 10 to 12 days when she came to the ER with a temperature of 102.  She was found to have strep.  She was treated with penicillin and sent home.  She returned about 8 o'clock after vomiting and a probable seizure.  Temperature was 104.5; she was lethargic after that.  She had an LP, which was unremarkable.  She had blood cultures, which have not grown anything.  The CSF has not grown anything at this point.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,  She is alert, recovering from anesthesia.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat are unremarkable.  Chest is clear to auscultation and percussion.  Abdomen is soft.  Extremities are unremarkable.,LAB STUDIES: , White count in the emergency room was 9.8 with a slight shift.  CSF glucose was 68, protein was 16, and there were no cells.  The Gram-stain was unremarkable.,ASSESSMENT: , I feel that this patient has a febrile seizure.,PLAN: , My plan is to readmit the patient to control her temperature and assess her white count.  I am going to observe her overnight.

SUBJECTIVE:,  Overall, she has been doing well.  Her blood sugars have usually been less than or equal to 135 by home glucose monitoring.  Her fasting blood sugar today is 120 by our Accu-Chek.  She is exercising three times per week.  Review of systems is otherwise unremarkable. ,OBJECTIVE:,  Her blood pressure is 110/60.  Other vitals are stable.  HEENT:  Unremarkable.  Neck:  Unremarkable.  Lungs:  Clear.  Heart:  Regular.  Abdomen:  Unchanged.  Extremities:  Unchanged.  Neurologic:  Unchanged. ,ASSESSMENT:,  ,1.  NIDDM with improved control. ,2.  Hypertension. ,3.  Coronary artery disease status post coronary artery bypass graft. ,4.  Degenerative arthritis. ,5.  Hyperlipidemia. ,6.  Hyperuricemia. ,7.  Renal azotemia. ,8.  Anemia. ,9.  Fibroglandular breasts. ,PLAN:,  We will get follow-up labs today.  We will continue with current medications and treatment.  We will arrange for a follow-up mammogram as recommended by the radiologist in six months, which will be approximately Month DD, YYYY.  The patient is advised to proceed with previous recommendations.  She is to follow-up with Ophthalmology and Podiatry for diabetic evaluation and to return for follow-up as directed.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 44-year-old white female who is here today with multiple problems.  The biggest concern she has today is her that left leg has been swollen.  It is swollen for three years to some extent, but worse for the past two to three months.  It gets better in the morning when she is up, but then through the day it begins to swell again.  Lately it is staying bigger and she somewhat uncomfortable with it being so large.  The right leg also swells, but not nearly like the left leg.  The other problem she had was she has had pain in her shoulder and back.  These occurred about a year ago, but the pain in her left shoulder is of most concern to her.  She feels like the low back pain is just a result of a poor mattress.  She does not remember hurting her shoulder, but she said gradually she has lost some mobility.  It is hard time to get her hands behind her back or behind her head.  She has lost strength in the left shoulder.  As far as the blood count goes, she had an elevated white count.  In April of 2005, Dr. XYZ had asked Dr. XYZ to see her because of the persistent leukocytosis; however, Dr. XYZ felt that this was not a problem for the patient and asked her to just return here for follow up.  She also complains of a lot of frequency with urination and nocturia times two to three.  She has gained weight; she thinks about 12 pounds since March.  She now weighs 284.  Fortunately, her blood pressure is staying stable.  She takes atenolol 12.5 mg per day and takes Lasix on a p.r.n. basis, but does not like to take it because it causes her to urinate so much.  She denies chest pain, but she does feel like she is becoming gradually more short of breath.  She works for the city of Wichita as bus dispatcher, so she does sit a lot, and just really does not move around much.  Towards the end of the day her leg was really swollen.  I reviewed her lab work.  Other than the blood count her lab work has been pretty normal, but she does need to have a cholesterol check.,OBJECTIVE:,General:  The patient is a very pleasant 44-year-old white female quite obese.,Vital Signs:  Blood pressure:  122/70.  Temperature:  98.6.,HEENT:  Head:  Normocephalic.  Ears:  TMs intact.  Eyes:  Pupils round, and equal.  Nose:  Mucosa normal.  Throat:  Mucosa normal.,Lungs:  Clear.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm.,Abdomen:  Soft and obese.,Extremities:  A lot of fluid in both legs, but especially the left leg is really swollen.  At least 2+ pedal edema.  The right leg just has a trace of edema.  She has pain in her low back with range of motion.  She has a lot of pain in her left shoulder with range of motion.  It is hard for her to get her hand behind her back.  She cannot get it up behind her head.  She has pain in the anterior left shoulder in that area.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Multiple problems including left leg swelling.,2.  History of leukocytosis.,3.  Joint pain involving the left shoulder, probably impingement syndrome.,4.  Low back pain, chronic with obesity.,5.  Obesity.,6.  Frequency with urination.,7.  Tobacco abuse.,PLAN:,1.  I will schedule for a venous Doppler of the left leg and will have her come back in the morning for a CBC and a metabolic panel.  We will start her on Detrol 0.4 mg one daily and also started on Mobic 15 mg per day.,2.  Elevate her leg as much as possible and wear support hose if possible.  Keep her foot up during the day.  We will see her back in two weeks.  We will have the results of the Doppler, the lab work and see how she is doing with the Detrol and the joint pain.  If her shoulder pain is not any better, we probably should refer her on over to orthopedist.  We did do x-rays of her shoulder today that did not show anything remarkable.  See her in two weeks or p.r.n.

SUBJECTIVE: , The patient has NG tube in place for decompression.  She says she is feeling a bit better.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,VITAL SIGNS:  She is afebrile.  Pulse is 58 and blood pressure is 110/56.,SKIN:  There is good skin turgor.,GENERAL:  She is not in acute distress.,CHEST:  Clear to auscultation.  There is good air movement bilaterally.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  First and second sounds are heard.  No murmurs appreciated.,ABDOMEN:  Less distended.  Bowel sounds are absent.,EXTREMITIES:  She has 3+ pedal swelling.,NEUROLOGICAL:  The patient is alert and oriented x3.  Examination is nonfocal.,LABORATORY DATA:,  White count is down from 20,000 to 12.5, hemoglobin is 12, hematocrit 37, and platelets 199,000.  Glucose is 157, BUN 14, creatinine 0.6, sodium is 131, potassium is 4.0, and CO2 is 31.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,1.  Small bowel obstruction/paralytic ileus, rule out obstipation.  Continue with less aggressive decompression.  Follow surgeon's recommendation.,2.  Pulmonary fibrosis, status post biopsy.  Manage as per pulmonologist.,3.  Leukocytosis, improving.  Continue current antibiotics.,4.  Bilateral pedal swelling.  Ultrasound of the lower extremity negative for DVT.,5.  Hyponatremia, improving.,6.  DVT prophylaxis.,7.  GI prophylaxis.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is an 89-year-old lady.  She actually turns 90 later this month, seen today for a short-term followup.  Actually, the main reasons we are seeing her back so soon which are elevated blood pressure and her right arm symptoms are basically resolved.  Blood pressure is better even though she is not currently on the higher dose Mavik likely recommended.  She apparently did not feel well with the higher dose, so she just went back to her previous dose of 1 mg daily.  She thinks, she also has an element of office hypertension.  Also, since she is on Mavik plus verapamil, she could switch over to the combined drug Tarka.  However, when we gave her samples of that she thought they were too big for her to swallow.  Basically, she is just back on her previous blood pressure regimen.  However, her blood pressure seems to be better today.  Her daughter says that they do check it periodically and it is similar to today’s reading.  Her right arm symptoms are basically resolved and she attributed that to her muscle problem back in the right shoulder blade.  We did do a C-spine and right shoulder x-ray and those just mainly showed some degenerative changes and possibly some rotator cuff injury with the humeral head quite high up in the glenoid in the right shoulder, but this does not seem to cause her any problems.  She has some vague “stomach problems”, although apparently it is improved when she stopped Aleve and she does not have any more aches or pains off Aleve.  She takes Tylenol p.r.n., which seems to be enough for her.  She does not think she has any acid reflux symptoms or heartburn.  She does take Tums t.i.d. and also Mylanta at night.  She has had dentures for many, many years and just recently I guess in the last few months, although she was somewhat vague on this, she has had some sores in her mouth.  They do heal up, but then she will get another one.  She also thinks since she has been on the Lexapro, she has somewhat of a tremor of her basically whole body at least upper body including the torso and arms and had all of the daughters who I not noticed to speak of and it is certainly difficult to tell her today that she has much tremor.  They do think the Lexapro has helped to some extent.,ALLERGIES: , None.,MEDICATION: , Verapamil 240 mg a day, Mavik 1 mg a day, Lipitor 10 mg one and half daily, vitamins daily, Ocuvite daily, Tums t.i.d., Tylenol 2-3 daily p.r.n., and Mylanta at night.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Mostly otherwise as above.,OBJECTIVE:,General:  She is a pleasant elderly lady.  She is in no acute distress, accompanied by daughter.,Vital signs:  Blood pressure:  128/82.  Pulse:  68.  Weight:  143 pounds.,HEENT:  No acute changes.  Atraumatic, normocephalic.  On mouth exam, she does have dentures.  She removed her upper denture.  I really do not see any sores at all.  Her mouth exam was unremarkable.,Neck:  No adenopathy, tenderness, JVD, bruits, or mass.,Lungs:  Clear.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm.,Extremities:  No significant edema.  Reasonable pulses.  No clubbing or cyanosis, may be just a minimal tremor in head and hands, but it is very subtle and hardly noticeable.  No other focal or neurological deficits grossly.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Hypertension, better reading today.,2.  Right arm symptoms, resolved.,3.  Depression probably somewhat improved with Lexapro and she will just continue that.  She only got up to the full dose 10 mg pill about a week ago and apparently some days does not need to take it.,4.  Perhaps a very subtle tremor.  I will just watch that.,5.  Osteoporosis.,6.  Osteoarthritis.,PLAN:,  I think I will just watch everything for now.  I would continue the Lexapro, we gave her more samples plus a prescription for the 20 mg that she can cut in half.  I offered to see her for again short-term followup.  However, they both preferred just to wait until the annual check up already set up for next April and they know they can call sooner.  She might get a flu shot here in the next few weeks.  Daughter mentioned here today that she thinks her mom is doing pretty well, especially given that she is turning 90 here later this month and I would tend to agree with that.

SUBJECTIVE: , This patient presents to the office today because he has not been feeling well.  He was in for a complete physical on 05/02/2008.  According to the chart, the patient gives a history of feeling bad for about two weeks.  At first he thought it was stress and anxiety and then he became worried it was something else.  He says he is having a lot of palpitations.  He gets a fluttering feeling in his chest.  He has been very tired over two weeks as well.  His job has been really getting to him.  He has been feeling nervous and anxious.  It seems like when he is feeling stressed he has more palpitations, sometimes they cause chest pain.  These symptoms are not triggered by exertion.  He had similar symptoms about 9 or 10 years ago.  At that time he went through a full workup.  Everything ended up being negative and they gave him something that he took for his nerves and he says that helped.  Unfortunately, he does not remember what it was.  Also over the last three days he has had some intestinal problems.  He has had some intermittent nausea and his stools have been loose.  He has been having some really funny green color to his bowel movements.  There has been no blood in the stool.  He is not having any abdominal pain, just some nausea.  He does not have much of an appetite.  He is a nonsmoker.,OBJECTIVE: , His weight today is 168.4 pounds, blood pressure 142/76, temperature 97.7, pulse 68, and respirations 16.  General exam:  The patient is nontoxic and in no acute distress.  There is no labored breathing.  Psychiatric:  He is alert and oriented times 3.  Ears:  Tympanic membranes pearly gray bilaterally.  Mouth:  No erythema, ulcers, vesicles, or exudate noted.  Eyes:  Pupils equal, round, and reactive to light bilaterally.  Neck is supple.  No lymphadenopathy.  Lungs:  Clear to auscultation.  No rales, rhonchi, or wheezing.  Cardiac:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur.  Extremities:  No edema, cyanosis, or clubbing.,ASSESSMENT:  ,1.  Palpitations, possibly related to anxiety.,2.  Fatigue.,3.  Loose stools with some green color and also some nausea.  There has been no vomiting, possibly a touch of gastroenteritis going on here.,PLAN: , The patient admits he has been putting this off now for about two weeks.  He says his work is definitely contributing to some of his symptoms and he feels stressed.  He is leaving for a vacation very soon.  Unfortunately, he is actually leaving Wednesday for XYZ, which puts us into a bit of a bind in terms of doing testing on him.  My overall opinion is he has some anxiety related issues and he may also have a touch of gastroenteritis.  A 12-lead EKG was performed on him in the office today.  This EKG was compared with the previous EKG contained in the chart from 2006 and I see that these EKGs look very similar with no significant changes noted, which is definitely a good news.  I am going to send him to the lab from our office to get the following tests done:  Comprehensive metabolic profile, CBC, urinalysis with reflex to culture and we will also get a chest X-ray.  Tomorrow morning I will manage to schedule him for an exercise stress test at Bad Axe Hospital.  We were able to squeeze him in.  His appointment is at 8:15 in the morning.  He is going to have the stress test done in the morning and he will come back to the office in the afternoon for recheck.  I am not going to be here so he is going to see Dr. X.  Dr. X should hopefully be able to call over and speak with the physician who attended the stress test and get a preliminary result before he leaves for XYZ.  Certainly, if something comes up we may need to postpone his trip.  We petitioned his medical records from his former physician and with luck we will be able to find out what medication he was on about nine or ten years ago.  In the meantime I have given him Ativan 0.5 mg one tablet two to three times a day as needed for anxiety.  I talked about Ativan, how it works.  I talked about the side effects.  I told him to use it only as needed and we can see how he is doing tomorrow when he comes back for his recheck.  I took him off of work today and tomorrow so he could rest.

SUBJECTIVE:,

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 62-year-old white female with multiple chronic problems including hypertension and a lipometabolism disorder.  She follows with Dr. XYZ on her hypertension, as well as myself.  She continues to gain weight.  Diabetes is therefore a major concern.  In fact, her dad had diabetes and she has a brother who has diabetes.  The patient also has several additional concerns she brings up today.  One is that her left knee continues to bother her and it hurts.  She cannot really isolate where the pain is, it just seems to hurt through her knee.  She has had this for some time now and in fact as we reviewed her records, her left knee has been x-rayed in 1999.  There was some minimal narrowing of the weightbearing joint with some minor hypertrophic spurring medially.  She would like to have this x-rayed again today.  She is certainly not interested in any surgery.  She has noted that it particularly hurts to kneel.  In addition, she complains of her stools being a baby-yellow.  She has rectal bleeding off and on.  It is bright red.  She had a colonoscopy done in 1999.  She does have a family history of colon cancer questionable in her mother, who is deceased.  She complains of some diffuse abdominal pain off and on.  She has given up fast foods and her pop and this has not seemed to help.  She does admit however, that she is not eating right.  Sometimes her stools are hard.  Sometimes they are runny.  The blood does not really seem to be related to necessarily a hard stool.  It is always bright red and will sometimes drip into the toilet.  Over the last couple of days, she had also been sneezing and has had an itchy throat.  She tried some Claritin and this did not help.  She has had some body aches.  She is finally feeling better today with this.  She also is questioning whether she has some sleep apnea.  She will awaken suddenly in the middle of the night.  She was told that she does snore.  She does not smoke.  As stated, she has gained significant weight.,GYNECOLOGICAL HISTORY: , She does not bleed.  She has both ovaries, as well as her uterus and cervix.  She is on no hormonal therapy.,PREVENTATIVE HISTORY:,  She is not exercising.  She does not do self breast examinations.  She has recently had her mammogram and it was unremarkable.  She does take her low-dose aspirin daily as well as her multivitamin.  She does wear her seatbelt.  As previously noted, she does not smoke or drink alcohol.,PAST MEDICAL, FAMILY AND SOCIAL HISTORY:,  Per health summary sheet, unchanged.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Unremarkable with the exception of that above. ,ALLERGIES: , No known drug allergies.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Benicar 20 mg daily; multivitamin; glucosamine; vitamin B complex; vitamin E and a low-dose aspirin.,OBJECTIVE:,General:  Well-nourished, well-developed, a very pleasant 61-year-old in no acute distress.,Vitals:  Her weight today is 246 pounds.  In March of 2002 she weighed 231 pounds.  In March 2001 she weighed 203 pounds.  Her blood pressure is 160/78.  Pulse is 84.  Respiratory rate of 20.  She is afebrile.,HEENT:  Head is of normocephalic, atraumatic.  PERLA.  Conjunctivae clear.  TMs are unremarkable and canals are patent.  Nasal mucosa is slightly reddened.  Nares are patent.  Throat shows some clear posterior pharyngeal drainage.  Throat is slightly reddened.  Non-exudative.  No oral lesions or dental caries noted.,Neck:  Supple, No adenopathy.  Thyroid without any nodules or enlargements, no JVD or carotid bruits.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmurs, clicks or rubs.  PMI is nondisplaced.,Lungs:  Clear to A&P.  No CVA tenderness.,Breast exam:  Negative for any axillary nodes, skin changes, discrete nodules or nipple discharge.  Breasts were examined both lying and sitting.,Abdomen:  Soft, nondistended, normoactive bowel sounds, no hepatosplenomegaly or masses.  Non tender.,Pelvic exam:  BUS unremarkable.  Speculum exam shows normal physiologic discharge.  There are some atrophic vaginal changes.  Cervix visualized, no gross abnormalities.  Pap smear obtained.  Bimanual is negative for any adnexal masses or tenderness.  Rectal exam is negative for any adnexal masses or tenderness.  No rectal masses.  She does have some external hemorrhoids, none of which are inflamed at this time.  No palpable rectal masses.,Neuromusculoskeletal exam:  Cranial nerves II-XII are grossly intact.  No cerebellar signs are noted.  No evidence of a gait disturbance.  DTRs are 1+/4+ and equal throughout.  Good uptoeing.  Skin:  Inspection of her skin, subcuticular tissues negative for any concerning skin lesions, rashes or subcuticular masses.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Weight-gain.,2.  Hypertension.,3.  Lipometabolism disorder.,4.  Rectal bleeding.,5.  Left knee pain.,6.  Question of sleep apnea.,7.  Upper respiratory infection, improving.,8.  Gynecological examination is unremarkable for her age.,PLAN:,  We discussed at length, the issue of sleep apnea and its negative sequela.  I have recommended that she be referred for a sleep study.  She is certainly at risk for sleep apnea.  She refuses this.  I do not think that her upper respiratory tract infection needs any further treatment at this time since she is feeling better.  I did x-ray her knee and with the exception of some degenerative changes, it was unremarkable.  I reviewed this with her.  I do think that since she is having rectal bleeding, while this is not real unusual for her, with her family history of colon cancer, I am going to have her discuss this further with Dr. XYZ and leave further studies up to them.  I will dictate Dr. XYZ a note.  I am not going to order any further studies at this time in terms of her yellow stools and right upper quadrant discomfort.  She has had a gallbladder sonogram done in the past, this has been unremarkable and these symptoms really have not changed for her.  This however, has been some time ago.  I suspect she has an element of irritable bowel syndrome.  I have strongly encouraged weight reduction, both through diet and exercise.  I would like to see her back in the office in six months.  I did retake her blood pressure today and it was 130/70.  She is fasting this morning, so we will get a fasting blood sugar, chem-12, lipid profile, and CPK.  I will her mail the results.  I have strongly encouraged medication management if her lipids are elevated.  I think she is amenable to this.  Her DEXA scan is up to date having been done on 04/09/03.  I do not recommend one this year.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 7-year-old male who comes in today with a three-day history of emesis and a four-day history of diarrhea.  Apparently, his brother had similar symptoms.  They had eaten some chicken and then ate some more of it the next day, and I could not quite understand what the problem was because there is a little bit of language barrier, although dad was trying very hard to explain to me what had happened.  But any way, after he and his brother got done eating with chicken, they both felt bad and have continued to feel bad.  The patient has had diarrhea five to six times a day for the last four days and then he had emesis pretty frequently three days ago and then has just had a couple of it each day in the last two days.  He has not had any emesis today.  He has urinated this morning.  His parents are both concerned because he had a fever of 103 last night.  Also, he ate half of a hamburger yesterday and he tried drinking some milk and that is when he had an emesis.  He has been drinking Pedialyte, Gatorade, white grape juice, and 7Up, otherwise he has not been eating anything.,MEDICATIONS:  ,None.,ALLERGIES:  ,He has no known drug allergies.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Negative as far as sore throat, earache, or cough.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,General:  He is awake and alert, no acute distress.,Vital Signs:  Blood pressure:  106/75.  Temperature:  99.  Pulse:  112.  Weight is 54 pounds.,HEENT:  His TMs are normal bilaterally.  Posterior pharynx is unremarkable.,Neck:  Without adenopathy or thyromegaly.,Lungs:  Clear to auscultation.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur.,Abdomen:  Benign.,Skin:  Turgor is intact.  His capillary refill is less than 3 seconds.,LABORATORY: , White blood cell count is 5.3 with 69 segs, 15 lymphs, and 13 monos.  His platelet count on his CBC is 215.,ASSESSMENT:,  Viral gastroenteritis.,PLAN:,  The parents did point out to me a rash that he had on his buttock.  There were some small almost pinpoint erythematous patches of papules that have a scab on them.  I did not see any evidence of petechiae.  Therefore, I just reassured them that this is a viral gastroenteritis.  I recommended that they stop giving him juice and just go with the Gatorade and water.  He is to stay away from milk products until his diarrhea and stomach upset have calmed down.  We talked about BRAT diet and slowly advancing his diet as he tolerates.  They have used some Kaopectate, which did not really help with the diarrhea.  Otherwise follow up as needed.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This 3-year-old male is brought by his mother with concerns about his eating.  He has become a very particular eater, and not eating very much in general.  However, her primary concern was he was vomiting sometimes after particular foods.  They had noted that when he would eat raw carrots, within 5 to 10 minutes he would complain that his stomach hurt and then vomit.  After this occurred several times, they stopped giving him carrots.  Last week, he ate some celery and the same thing happened.  They had not given him any of that since.  He eats other foods without any apparent pain or vomiting.  Bowel movements are normal.  He does have a history of reactive airway disease, intermittently.  He is not diagnosed with intrinsic asthma at this time and takes no medication regularly.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  He is on no medications.,ALLERGIES: , He has no known medicine allergies.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital Signs:  Weight:  31.5 pounds, which is an increase of 2.5 pounds since May.  Temperature is 97.1.  He certainly appears in no distress.  He is quite interested in looking at his books.,Neck:  Supple without adenopathy.,Lungs:  Clear.,Cardiac:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmurs.,Abdomen:  Soft without organomegaly, masses, or tenderness.,ASSESSMENT:,  Report of vomiting and abdominal pain after eating raw carrots and celery.  Etiology of this is unknown.,PLAN:,  I talked with mother about this.  Certainly, it does not suggest any kind of an allergic reaction, nor obstruction.  At this time, they will simply avoid those foods.  In the future, they may certainly try those again and see how he tolerates those.  I did encourage a wide variety of fruits and vegetables in his diet as a general principle.  If worsening symptoms, she is welcome to contact me again for reevaluation.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is in complaining of headaches and dizzy spells, as well as a new little rash on the medial right calf.  She describes her dizziness as both vertigo and lightheadedness.  She does not have a headache at present but has some intermittent headaches, neck pains, and generalized myalgias.  She has noticed a few more bruises on her legs.  No fever or chills with slight cough.  She has had more chest pains but not at present.  She does have a little bit of nausea but no vomiting or diarrhea.  She complains of some left shoulder tenderness and discomfort.  She reports her blood sugar today after lunch was 155.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  She is currently on her nystatin ointment to her lips q.i.d. p.r.n.  She is still using a triamcinolone 0.1% cream t.i.d. to her left wrist rash and her Bactroban ointment t.i.d. p.r.n. to her bug bites on her legs.  Her other meds remain as per the dictation of 07/30/2004 with the exception of her Klonopin dose being 4 mg in a.m. and 6 mg at h.s. instead of what the psychiatrist had recommended which should be 6 mg and 8 mg.,ALLERGIES: , Sulfa, erythromycin, Macrodantin, and tramadol.,OBJECTIVE:,General:  She is a well-developed, well-nourished, obese female in no acute distress.,Vital Signs:  Her age is 55.  Temperature:  98.2.  Blood pressure:  110/70.  Pulse:  72.  Weight:  174 pounds.,HEENT:  Head was normocephalic.  Throat:  Clear.  TMs clear.,Neck:  Supple without adenopathy.,Lungs:  Clear.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur.,Abdomen:  Soft, nontender without hepatosplenomegaly or mass.,Extremities:  Trace of ankle edema but no calf tenderness x 2 in lower extremities is noted.  Her shoulders have full range of motion.  She has minimal tenderness to the left shoulder anteriorly.,Skin:  There is bit of an erythematous rash to the left wrist which seems to be clearing with triamcinolone and her rash around her lips seems to be clearing nicely with her nystatin.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Headaches.,2.  Dizziness.,3.  Atypical chest pains.,4.  Chronic renal failure.,5.  Type II diabetes.,6.  Myalgias.,7.  Severe anxiety (affect is still quite anxious.),PLAN:,  I strongly encouraged her to increase her Klonopin to what the psychiatrist recommended, which should be 6 mg in the a.m. and 8 mg in the p.m.  I sent her to lab for CPK due to her myalgias and pro-time for monitoring her Coumadin.  Recheck in one week.  I think her dizziness is multifactorial and due to enlarged part of her anxiety.  I do note that she does have a few new bruises on her extremities, which is likely due to her Coumadin.

SUBJECTIVE: , The patient was seen and examined.  He feels much better today, improved weakness and decreased muscular pain.  No other complaints.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,GENERAL:  Not in acute distress, awake, alert and oriented x3.,VITAL SIGNS:  Blood pressure 147/68, heart rate 82, respiratory rate 20, temperature 97.7, O2 saturation 99% on 3 L.,HEENT:  NC/T, PERRLA, EOMI.,NECK:  Supple.,HEART: Regular rate and rhythm.,RESPIRATORY:  Clear bilateral.,ABDOMEN:  Soft and nontender.,EXTREMITIES:  No edema.  Pulses present bilateral.,LABORATORY DATA: , Total CK coming down 70,142 from 25,573, total CK is 200, troponin is 2.3 from 1.9 yesterday.,BNP, blood sugar 93, BUN of 55.7, creatinine 2.7, sodium 137, potassium 3.9, chloride 108, and CO2 of 22.,Liver function test, AST 704, ALT 298, alkaline phosphatase 67, total bilirubin 0.3.  CBC, WBC count 9.1, hemoglobin 9.9, hematocrit 29.2, and platelet count 204.  Blood cultures are still pending.,Ultrasound of abdomen, negative abdomen, both kidneys were echogenic, cortices suggesting chronic medical renal disease.  Doppler of lower extremities negative for DVT., ,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,1.  Rhabdomyolysis, most likely secondary to statins, gemfibrozil, discontinue it on admission.  Continue IV fluids.  We will monitor.,2.  Acute on chronic renal failure.  We will follow up with Nephrology recommendation.,3.  Anemia, drop in hemoglobin most likely hemodilutional.  Repeat CBC in a.m.,4.  Leukocytosis, improving.,5.  Elevated liver enzyme, most likely secondary to rhabdomyolysis.  The patient denies any abdominal pain and ultrasound is unremarkable.,6.  Hypertension.  Blood pressure controlled.,7.  Elevated cardiac enzyme, follow up with Cardiology recommendation.,8.  Obesity.,9.  Deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis.  Continue Lovenox 40 mg subcu daily.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 66-year-old female who presents to the clinic today for a five-month recheck on her type II diabetes mellitus, as well as hypertension.  While here she had a couple of other issues as well.  She stated that she has been having some right shoulder pain.  She denies any injury but certain range of motion does cause it to hurt.  No weakness, numbness or tingling.  As far as her diabetes she states that she only checks her blood sugars in the morning and those have all been ranging less than 100.  She has not been checking any two hours after meals.  Her blood pressures when she does check them have been running normal as well but she does not have any record of these present with her.  No other issues or concerns.  Upon review of her chart it did show that she had a benign breast biopsy done back on 06/11/04 and was told to have a repeat mammogram in six months but she has never had that done so she is needing to have this done as well.,ALLERGIES: , None.,MEDICATIONS:,  She is on Hyzaar 50/12.5 one-half p.o. daily, coated aspirin daily, lovastatin 40 mg one-half tab p.o. daily, multivitamin daily, metformin 500 mg one tab p.o. b.i.d.; however, she has been skipping her second dose during the day.,SOCIAL HISTORY:,  She is a nonsmoker.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  As noted above.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital Signs:  Temperature:  98.2.  Pulse:  64.  Respirations:  16.  Blood pressure:  110/56.  Weight:  169.,General:  Alert and oriented x 3.  No acute distress noted.,Neck:  No lymphadenopathy, thyromegaly, JVD or bruits.,Lungs:  Clear to auscultation.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur or gallops present.,Breasts:  Exam performed with a female nurse present.  The breasts do have some scars present underneath them bilaterally from prior breast reduction surgery.  There is no axillary adenopathy or tenderness.  Breasts appear to be symmetric.  There was no nipple discharge or retraction.  No breast tissue retraction noted in either the sitting or the supine position.  Upon palpation there were no palpable lumps or bumps and no palpable discharge.,Musculoskeletal:  She did have full range of motion of her shoulders.  She did have tenderness upon palpation over the right bicipital tendon.  There is no swelling, crepitus or discoloration noted.,MEDICAL DECISION MAKING:  Most recent hemoglobin A1c was 5.6% back in October 2004.  Most recent lipid checks were obtained back in July 2004.  We have not had this checked since that time.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Type II diabetes mellitus.,2.  Hypertension.,3.  Right shoulder pain.,4.  Hyperlipidemia.,PLAN:,1.  She is going to go to lab to obtain a hemoglobin A1c, BMP, lipids, CPK, liver enzymes and quantitative microalbumin.,2.  We are going to set her up for a diagnostic bilateral mammogram due to a history of abnormal mammogram in the past which subsequently showed a benign breast cyst.,3.  I told her for her shoulder to take ibuprofen 600 mg three times daily with her meals for a minimum of the next one week.,4.  She is going to follow up in the clinic in three months for a complete comprehensive examination.  If any questions, concerns or problems arise between now and then she should let us know.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient states that he feels sick and weak.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,VITAL SIGNS:  Highest temperature recorded over the past 24 hours was 101.1, and current temperature is 99.2.,GENERAL:  The patient looks tired.,HEENT:  Oral mucosa is dry.,CHEST:  Clear to auscultation.  He states that he has a mild cough, not productive.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  First and second heart sounds were heard.  No murmur was appreciated.,ABDOMEN:  Soft and nontender.  Bowel sounds are positive. Murphy's sign is negative.,EXTREMITIES:  There is no swelling.,NEURO:  The patient is alert and oriented x 3.  Examination is nonfocal.,LABORATORY DATA: , White count is normal at 6.8, hemoglobin is 15.8, and platelets 257,000.  Glucose is in the low 100s.  Comprehensive metabolic panel is unremarkable.  UA is negative for infection.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,1.  Fever of undetermined origin, probably viral since white count is normal.  Would continue current antibiotics empirically.,2.  Dehydration.  Hydrate the patient.,3.  Prostatic hypertrophy.  Urologist, Dr. X.,4.  DVT prophylaxis with subcutaneous heparin.

SUBJECTIVE: , The patient states she is feeling a bit better.,OBJECTIVE:,VITAL SIGNS:  Temperature is 95.4.  Highest temperature recorded over the past 24 hours is 102.1.,CHEST:  Examination of the chest is clear to auscultation.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  First and second heart sounds were heard.  No murmurs appreciated.,ABDOMEN:  Benign.  Right renal angle is tender.  Bowel sounds are positive.,EXTREMITIES:  There is no swelling.,NEUROLOGIC:  The patient is alert and oriented x3.  Examination is nonfocal.,LABORATORY DATA: , White count is down from 35,000 to 15.5.  Hemoglobin is 9.5, hematocrit is 30, and platelets are 269,000.  BUN is down to 22, creatinine is within normal limits.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,1.  Sepsis due to urinary tract infection.  Urine culture shows Escherichia coli, resistant to Levaquin.  We changed to doripenem.,2.  Urinary tract infection, we will treat with doripenem, change Foley catheter,3.  Hypotension.  Resolved, continue intravenous fluids.,4.  Ischemic cardiomyopathy.  No evidence of decompensation, we with monitor.,5.  Diabetes type 2.  Uncontrolled.  Continue insulin sliding scale.,6.  Recent pulmonary embolism, INR is above therapeutic range, Coumadin is on hold, we will monitor.,7.  History of coronary artery disease.  Troponin indeterminate.  Cardiologist intends no further workup.  Continue medical treatment.  Most likely troponin is secondary to impaired clearance.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient comes in today for a comprehensive evaluation.  She is well-known to me.  I have seen her in the past multiple times.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY/SOCIAL HISTORY/FAMILY HISTORY: , Noted and reviewed today.  They are on the health care flow sheet.  She has significant anxiety which has been under fair control recently.  She has a lot of stress associated with a son that has some challenges.  There is a family history of hypertension and strokes.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Currently taking Toprol and Avalide for hypertension and anxiety as I mentioned.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Significant for occasional tiredness.  This is intermittent and currently not severe.  She is concerned about the possibly of glucose abnormalities such diabetes.  We will check a glucose, lipid profile and a Hemoccult test also and a mammogram.  Her review of systems is otherwise negative.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,VITAL SIGNS:  As above.,GENERAL:  The patient is alert, oriented, in no acute distress.,HEENT:  PERRLA.  EOMI.  TMs clear bilaterally.  Nose and throat clear.,NECK:  Supple without adenopathy or thyromegaly.  Carotid pulses palpably normal without bruit.,CHEST:  No chest wall tenderness.,BREAST EXAM:  No asymmetry, skin changes, dominant masses, nipple discharge, or axillary adenopathy.,HEART:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur, clicks, or rubs.,LUNGS:  Clear to auscultation and percussion.,ABDOMEN:  Soft, nontender, bowel sounds normoactive.  No masses or organomegaly.,GU:  External genitalia without lesions.  BUS normal.  Vulva and vagina show just mild atrophy without any lesions.  Her cervix and uterus are within normal limits.  Ovaries are not really palpable.  No pelvic masses are appreciated.,RECTAL:  Negative.,BREASTS:  No significant abnormalities.,EXTREMITIES:  Without clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.  Pulses within normal limits.,NEUROLOGIC:  Cranial nerves II-XII intact.  Strength, sensation, coordination, and reflexes all within normal limits.,SKIN:  Noted to be normal.  No subcutaneous masses noted.,LYMPH SYSTEM:  No lymphadenopathy.,ASSESSMENT:,  Generalized anxiety and hypertension, both under fair control.,PLAN:,  We will not make any changes in her medications.  I will have her check a lipid profile as mentioned, and I will call her with that.  Screening mammogram will be undertaken.  She declined a sigmoidoscopy at this time.  I look forward to seeing her back in a year and as needed.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is well-known to me.  He comes in today for a comprehensive evaluation.  Really, again he borders on health crises with high blood pressure, diabetes, and obesity.  He states that he has reached a critical decision in the last week that he understands that he cannot continue with his health decisions as they have been made, specifically the lack of exercise, the obesity, the poor eating habits, etc.  He knows better and has been through some diabetes training.  In fact, interestingly enough, with his current medications which include the Lantus at 30 units along with Actos, glyburide, and metformin, he achieved ideal blood sugar control back in August 2004.  Since that time he has gone off of his regimen of appropriate eating, and has had sugars that are running on average too high at about 178 over the last 14 days.  He has had elevated blood pressure.  His other concerns include allergic symptoms.  He has had irritable bowel syndrome with some cramping.  He has had some rectal bleeding in recent days.  Also once he wakes up he has significant difficulty in getting back to sleep.  He has had no rectal pain, just the bleeding associated with that.,MEDICATIONS/ALLERGIES:,  As above.,PAST MEDICAL/SURGICAL HISTORY: , Reviewed and updated - see Health Summary Form for details.,FAMILY AND SOCIAL HISTORY:,  Reviewed and updated - see Health Summary Form for details.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Constitutional, Eyes, ENT/Mouth, Cardiovascular, Respiratory, GI, GU, Musculoskeletal, Skin/Breasts, Neurologic, Psychiatric, Endocrine, Heme/Lymph, Allergies/Immune all negative with the following exceptions:  None.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,VITAL SIGNS:  As above.,GENERAL:  The patient is alert, oriented, well-developed, obese male who is in no acute distress.,HEENT:  PERRLA.  EOMI.  TMs clear bilaterally.  Nose and throat clear.,NECK:  Supple without adenopathy or thyromegaly.  Carotid pulses palpably normal without bruit.,CHEST:  No chest wall tenderness or breast enlargement.,HEART:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur, clicks, or rubs.,LUNGS:  Clear to auscultation and percussion.,ABDOMEN:  Significantly obese without any discernible organomegaly.  GU:  Normal male genitalia without testicular abnormalities, inguinal adenopathy, or hernia.,RECTAL:  Smooth, nonenlarged prostate with just some irritation around the rectum itself.  No hemorrhoids are noted.,EXTREMITIES:  Some slow healing over the tibia.  Without clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.  Peripheral pulses within normal limits.,NEUROLOGIC:  Cranial nerves II-XII intact.  Strength, sensation, coordination, and reflexes all within normal limits.,SKIN:  Noted to be normal.  No subcutaneous masses noted.,LYMPH SYSTEM:  No lymphadenopathy noted.,BACK:  He has pain in his back in general.,ASSESSMENT/PLAN:,1.  Diabetes and hypertension, both under less than appropriate control.  In fact, we discussed increasing the Lantus.  He appears genuine in his desire to embark on a substantial weight-lowering regime, and is going to do that through dietary control.  He knows what needs to be done with the absence of carbohydrates, and especially simple sugar.  He will also check a hemoglobin A1c, lipid profile, urine for microalbuminuria and a chem profile.  I will need to recheck him in a month to verify that his sugars and blood pressure have come into the ideal range.  He has allergic rhinitis for which Zyrtec can be used.,2.  He has irritable bowel syndrome.  We will use Metamucil for that which also should help stabilize the stools so that the irritation of the rectum is lessened.  For the bleeding I would like to obtain a sigmoidoscopy.  It is bright red blood.,3.  For his insomnia, I found there is very little in the way of medications that are going to fix that, however I have encouraged him in good sleep hygiene.  I will look forward to seeing him back in a month.  I will call him with the results of his lab.  His medications were made out.  We will use some Elocon cream for his seborrheic dermatitis of the face.  Zyrtec and Flonase for his allergic rhinitis.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is in with several medical problems.  She complains of numbness, tingling, and a pain in the toes primarily of her right foot described as a moderate pain.  She initially describes it as a sharp quality pain, but is unable to characterize it more fully.  She has had it for about a year, but seems to be worsening.  She has little bit of paraesthesias in the left toe as well and seem to involve all the toes of the right foot.  They are not worse with walking.  It seems to be worse when she is in bed.  There is some radiation of the pain up her leg.  She also continues to have bilateral shoulder pains without sinus allergies.  She has hypothyroidism.  She has thrombocythemia, insomnia, and hypertension.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Surgeries include appendectomy in 1933, bladder obstruction surgery in 1946, gallbladder surgery in 1949, another gallbladder surgery in 1954, C-section in 1951, varicose vein surgery in 1951 and again in 1991, thyroid gland surgery in 1964, hernia surgery in 1967, bilateral mastectomies in 1968 for benign disease, hysterectomy leaving her ovaries behind in 1970, right shoulder surgery x 4 and left shoulder surgery x 2 between 1976 and 1991, and laparoscopic bowel adhesion removal in October 2002.  She had a Port-A-Cath placed in June 2003, left total knee arthroplasty in June 2003, and left hip pinning due to fracture in October 2003, with pins removed in May 2004.  She has had a number of colonoscopies; next one is being scheduled at the end of this month.  She also had a right total knee arthroplasty in 1993.  She was hospitalized for synovitis of the left knee in April 2004, for zoster and infection of the left knee in May 2003, and for labyrinthitis in June 2004.,ALLERGIES: , Sulfa, aspirin, Darvon, codeine, NSAID, amoxicillin, and quinine.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Hydroxyurea 500 mg daily, Metamucil three teaspoons daily, amitriptyline 50 mg at h.s., Synthroid 0.1 mg daily, Ambien 5 mg at h.s., triamterene/hydrochlorothiazide 75/50 daily, and Lortab 5/500 at h.s. p.r.n.,SOCIAL HISTORY:,  She is a nonsmoker and nondrinker.  She has been widowed for 18 years.  She lives alone at home.  She is retired from running a restaurant.,FAMILY HISTORY:,  Mother died at age 79 of a stroke.  Father died at age 91 of old age.  Her brother had prostate cancer.  She has one brother living.  No family history of heart disease or diabetes.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,General:  Negative.,HEENT:  She does complain of some allergies, sneezing, and sore throat.  She wears glasses.,Pulmonary history:  She has bit of a cough with her allergies.,Cardiovascular history:  Negative for chest pain or palpitations.  She does have hypertension.,GI history:  Negative for abdominal pain or blood in the stool.,GU history:  Negative for dysuria or frequency.  She empties okay.,Neurologic history:  Positive for paresthesias to the toes of both feet, worse on the right.,Musculoskeletal history:  Positive for shoulder pain.,Psychiatric history:  Positive for insomnia.,Dermatologic history:  Positive for a spot on her right cheek, which she was afraid was a precancerous condition.,Metabolic history:  She has hypothyroidism.,Hematologic history:  Positive for essential thrombocythemia and anemia.,OBJECTIVE:,General:  She is a well-developed, well-nourished, elderly female in no acute distress.,Vital Signs:  Her age is 81.  Temperature:  98.0.  Blood pressure:  140/70.  Pulse:  72.  Weight:  127.,HEENT:  Head was normocephalic.  Pupils equal, round, and reactive to light.  Extraocular movements are intact.  Fundi are benign.  TMs, nares, and throat were clear.,Neck:  Supple without adenopathy or thyromegaly.,Lungs:  Clear.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur, click, or rub.  No carotid bruits are heard.,Abdomen:  Normal bowel sounds.  It is soft and nontender without hepatosplenomegaly or mass.,Breasts:  Surgically absent.  No chest wall mass was noted, except for the Port-A-Cath in the left chest.  No axillary adenopathy is noted.,Extremities:  Examination of the extremities reveals no ankle edema or calf tenderness x 2 in lower extremities.  There is a cyst on the anterior portion of the right ankle.  Pedal pulses were present.,Neurologic:  Cranial nerves II-XII grossly intact and symmetric.  Deep tendon reflexes were 1 to 2+ bilaterally at the knees.  No focal neurologic deficits were observed.,Pelvic:  BUS and external genitalia were atrophic.  Vaginal rugae were atrophic.  Cervix was surgically absent.  Bimanual exam confirmed the absence of uterus and cervix and I could not palpate any ovaries.,Rectal:  Exam confirmed there is brown stool present in the rectal vault.,Skin:  Clear other than actinic keratosis on the right cheek.,Psychiatric:  Affect is normal.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Peripheral neuropathy primarily of the right foot.,2.  Hypertension.,3.  Hypothyroidism.,4.  Essential thrombocythemia.,5.  Allergic rhinitis.,6.  Insomnia.,PLAN:

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient complains of backache, stomachache, and dysuria for the last two days.  Fever just started today and cough.  She has history of kidney stones less than a year ago and had a urinary tract infection at that time.  Her back started hurting last night.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  She denies sexual activities since two years ago.  Her last menstrual period was 06/01/2004.  Her periods have been irregular.  She started menarche at 10 years of age and she is still irregular and it runs in Mom’s side of the family.  Mom and maternal aunt have had total hysterectomies.  She also is diagnosed with abnormal valve has to be on SBE prophylaxis, sees Dr. XYZ Allen.  She avoids decongestants.  She is limited on her activity secondary to her heart condition.,MEDICATION:,  Cylert.,ALLERGIES: , No known drug allergies.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital Signs:  Blood pressure is 124/72.  Temperature 99.2.  Respirations 20 unlabored.  Weight:  137 pounds.,HEENT:  Normocephalic.  Conjunctivae noninjected.  No mattering noted.  Her TMs are bilaterally clear, nonerythematous.  Throat clear, good mucous membrane moisture, but she did have erythema and edema at her posterior soft palate.,Neck:  Supple.  Increased lymphadenopathy noted in the submandibular nodes, but no axillary nodes and no hepatosplenomegaly.,Respiratory:  Clear.  No wheezes, no crackles, no tachypnea, and no retractions.,Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm.  S1 and S2 normal, no murmur.,Abdomen:  Soft.  No organomegaly.  She did have exquisite tenderness to palpation of the left upper quadrant and flank area, but the spleen was not palpable.  She has no suprapubic tenderness.,Extremities:  She has good range of motion of upper and lower extremities.  Good ambulation.,Her UA was positive for 2+ leukocyte esterase, positive nitrites, 1+ protein, 2+ ketones, 4+ blood, greater than 50 white blood cells, 10-20 rbc’s, and 1+ bacteria.  Culture and sensitivity is pending.  Her Strep test is negative.  Culture is pending.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Urinary dysuria.,2.  Left flank pain.,3.  Pharyngitis.,PLAN:,  A 1 g of Rocephin IM was given.  Call Dr. B's office tomorrow morning incase a second IM dose is needed.  If not then she will fill a prescription for Omnicef 300 mg capsule 1 p.o. b.i.d. for 10 days total and then we will await the culture and sensitivity results to see if this is appropriate drug.  Push fluids.  Await strep culture report.  Follow up with Dr. XYZ if no better or symptoms worsen.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 2-year-old little girl who comes in with concerns about stuffiness, congestion and nasal drainage.  She does take Zyrtec on a fairly regular basis.  Mom is having some allergy trouble herself right now.  She does not know her colors.  She knows some of her shapes.  She speaks in sentences.  She is not showing much interest in the potty.  She is in the 80th percentile for height and weight, and still over 95th percentile for head circumference.  Mom has no other concerns.,ALLERGIES:,  Eggs and peanuts.,OBJECTIVE:,General:  Alert, very talkative little girl.,HEENT:  TMs clear and mobile.  Eyes:  PERRL.  Fundi benign.  Pharynx clear.  Mouth moist.  Nasal mucosa is pale with clear discharge.,Neck:  Supple without adenopathy.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur.,Lungs:  Clear.  No tachypnea, wheezing, rales or retractions.,Abdomen:  Soft and nontender without mass or organomegaly.,GU:  Normal female genitalia.  Tanner stage I.,Extremities:  No clubbing, cyanosis or edema.  Pulses 2+ and equal.,Hips:  Intact.,Neurological:  Normal.  DTRs are 2+.  Gait was normal.,Skin:  Warm and dry.  No rashes noted.,ASSESSMENT:,  Allergic rhinitis.  Otherwise healthy 2-year-old young lady.,PLAN:,  In addition to her Zyrtec, I put her on Nasonex spray one spray each nostril daily.  If this works for her, certainly she can do it through the ragweed season.  Otherwise she is doing well.  I talked about ways to improve her potty training.  She is a very good eater.  I will see her yearly or p.r.n.  Unfortunately she is not able to get the flu shot due to her egg allergy.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a 12-year-old young man who comes in with about 10 days worth of sinus congestion.  He does have significant allergies including ragweed.  The drainage has been clear.  He had a little bit of a headache yesterday.  He has had no fever.  No one else is ill at home currently.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Advair and Allegra.  He has been taking these regularly.  He is not sure the Allegra is working for him anymore.  He does think though better than Claritin.,PHYSICAL EXAM:,General:  Alert young man in no distress.,HEENT:  TMs clear and mobile.  Pharynx clear.  Mouth moist.  Nasal mucosa pale with clear discharge.,Neck:  Supple without adenopathy.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur.,Lungs:  Lungs clear, no tachypnea, wheezing, rales or retractions.,Abdomen:  Soft, nontender, without masses or splenomegaly.,ASSESSMENT:,  I think this is still his allergic rhinitis rather than a sinus infection.,PLAN:,  Change to Zyrtec 10 mg samples were given.  He is not using nasal spray, but he has some at home.  He should restart this.  Continue to watch his peak flows to make sure his asthma does not come under poor control.  Call if any further problems.

SUBJECTIVE:,  Mom brings the patient in today for possible ear infection.  He is complaining of left ear pain today.  He was treated on 04/14/2004, with amoxicillin for left otitis and Mom said he did seem to get better but just started complaining of the left ear pain today.  He has not had any fever but the congestion has continued to be very thick and purulent.  It has never really resolved.  He has a loose, productive-sounding cough but not consistently and not keeping him up at night.  No wheezing or shortness of breath.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  He has had some wheezing in the past but nothing recently.,FAMILY HISTORY: , All siblings are on antibiotics for ear infections and URIs.,OBJECTIVE:,General:  The patient is a 5-year-old male.  Alert and cooperative.  No acute distress.,Neck:  Supple without adenopathy.,HEENT:  Ear canals clear.  TMs, bilaterally, have distorted light reflexes but no erythema.  Gray in color.  Oropharynx pink and moist with a lot of postnasal discharge.  Nares are swollen and red.  Thick, purulent drainage.  Eyes are a little puffy.,Chest:  Respirations regular, nonlabored.,Lungs:  Clear to auscultation throughout.,Heart:  Regular rhythm without murmur.,Skin:  Warm, dry, pink.  Moist mucus membranes.  No rash.,ASSESSMENT:,  Ongoing purulent rhinitis.  Probable sinusitis and serous otitis.,PLAN:,  Change to Omnicef two teaspoons daily for 10 days.  Frequent saline in the nose.  Also, there was some redness around the nares with a little bit of yellow crusting.  It appeared to be the start of impetigo, so hold off on the Rhinocort for a few days and then restart.  Use a little Neosporin for now.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a 2-year-old female who comes in for just rechecking her weight, her breathing status, and her diet.  The patient is in foster care, has a long history of the prematurity, born at 22 weeks.  She has chronic lung disease, is on ventilator, but doing sprints, has been doing very well, is up to 4-1/2 hours sprints twice daily and may go up 15 minutes every three days or so; which she has been tolerating fairly well as long as they kind of get her distracted towards the end, otherwise, she does get sort of tachypneic.  She is on 2-1/2 liters of oxygen and does require that.  Her diet has been fluctuating.  They have been trying to figure out what works best with her.  She has been on some Pediasure for the increased calories but that really makes her distended in the abdomen and constipates her.  They have been doing more pureed foods and that seems to loosen her up, so they have been doing more Isomil 24 cal and baby foods and not so much Pediasure.  She was hospitalized a couple of weeks back for the distension she had in the abdomen.  Dr. XYZ has been working with her G-tube, increasing her Mic-key button size, but also doing some silver nitrate applications, and he is going to evaluate her again next week, but they are happy with the way her G-tube site is looking.  She also has been seen Dr. Eisenbaum, just got of new pair of glasses this week and sees him in another couple of weeks for reevaluation.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Flagyl, vitamins, Zyrtec, albuterol, and some Colace.,ALLERGIES TO MEDICINES: , None.,FAMILY SOCIAL HISTORY:,  As mentioned, she is in foster care.  Foster mom is actually going to be out of town for a week the 19th through the 23rd, so she will probably be hospitalized in respite care because there are no other foster care situations that can handle the patient.  Biological Mom and Grandma do visit on Thursdays for about an hour.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  The patient has been eating fairly well, sleeping well, doing well with her sprints.  A little difficulty with her stools hard versus soft as mentioned with the diet situation up in HPI.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,Vital Signs:  She is 28 pounds 8 ounces today, 33-1/2 inches tall.  She is on 2-1/2 liters, but she is not the vent currently, she is doing her sprints, and her respiratory rate is around 40.,HEENT:  Sclerae and conjunctivae are clear.  TMs are clear.  Nares are patent.  Oropharynx is clear.  Trach site is clear of any signs of infection.,Chest:  Coarse.  She has got little bit of wheezing going on, but she is moving air fairly well.,Abdomen:  Positive bowel sounds and soft.  The G-tube site looks fairly clean today and healthy.  No signs of infection.  Her tone is good.  Capillary refill is less than three seconds.,ASSESSMENT:,  A 2-year-old with chronic lung disease, doing the sprints, some bowel difficulties, also just weight gain issues because of the high-energy expenditure with the sprints that she is doing.,PLAN:,  At this point is to continue with the Isomil and pureed baby foods, a little bit of Pediasure.  They are going to see Dr. XYZ towards the end of this month and follow up with Dr. Eisenbaum.  I would like to see her in approximately six weeks again, but we do need to keep a close check on her weight and call if there are problems beforehand.  She is just doing wonderful progression on her development.  Each time I see her, I am very impressed, that relayed to foster mom.  Approximately 25 minutes spent with the patient, most of it counseling.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is an 11-year-old female who comes in for two different things.  1.  She was seen by the allergist.  No allergies present, so she stopped her Allegra, but she is still real congested and does a lot of snorting.  They do not notice a lot of snoring at night though, but she seems to be always like that.  2.  On her right great toe, she has got some redness and erythema.  Her skin is kind of peeling a little bit, but it has been like that for about a week and a half now.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Otherwise reviewed and noted.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  None.,ALLERGIES TO MEDICINES:,  None.,FAMILY SOCIAL HISTORY:,  Everyone else is healthy at home.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  She has been having the redness of her right great toe, but also just a chronic nasal congestion and fullness.  Review of systems is otherwise negative.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,General:  Well-developed female, in no acute distress, afebrile.,HEENT:  Sclerae and conjunctivae clear.  Extraocular muscles intact.  TMs clear.  Nares patent.  A little bit of swelling of the turbinates on the left.  Oropharynx is essentially clear.  Mucous membranes are moist.,Neck:  No lymphadenopathy.,Chest:  Clear.,Abdomen:  Positive bowel sounds and soft.,Dermatologic:  She has got redness along the lateral portion of her right great toe, but no bleeding or oozing.  Some dryness of her skin.  Her toenails themselves are very short and even on her left foot and her left great toe the toenails are very short.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  History of congestion, possibly enlarged adenoids, or just her anatomy.,2.  Ingrown toenail, but slowly resolving on its own.,PLAN:,1.  For the congestion, we will have ENT evaluate.  Appointment has been made with Dr. XYZ for in a couple of days.,2.  I told her just Neosporin for her toe, letting the toenail grow out longer.  Call if there are problems.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a 1-year-old male who comes in with a cough and congestion for the past two to three weeks.  Started off as a congestion but then he started coughing about a week ago.  Cough has gotten worsen.  Mother was also worried.  He had Pop Can just three days ago and she never found the top of that and was wondering if he had swallowed that, but his breathing has not gotten worse since that happened.  He is not running any fevers.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Otherwise, reviewed.  Fairly healthy.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  None.,ALLERGIES TO MEDICINES:,  None.,FAMILY SOCIAL HISTORY:,  The sister is in today with clinical sinusitis.  Mother and father have been healthy.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  He has been congested for about three weeks ago.  Coughing now but no fevers.  No vomiting.  Review of systems is otherwise negative.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,General:  Well-developed male in no acute distress, afebrile.,Vital Signs:  Weight:  22 pounds 6 ounces.,HEENT:  Sclerae and conjunctivae are clear.  Extraocular muscles are intact.  TMs are clear.  Nares are very congested.  Oropharynx has drainage in the back of the throat.  Mucous membranes are moist.  Mild erythema though.,Neck:  Some shotty lymphadenopathy.  Full range of motion.  Supple.,Chest:  Clear.  No crackles.  No wheezes.,Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm.  Normal S1, S2.,Abdomen:  Positive bowel sounds and soft.,Dermatologic:  Clear.  Tone is good.  Capillary refill less than 3 seconds.,RADIOLOGY:,  Chest x-ray:  No foreign body noted as well.  No signs of pneumonia.,ASSESSMENT:,  Clinical sinusitis and secondary cough.,PLAN:,  Amoxicillin a teaspoon twice daily for 10 days.  Plenty of fluids.  Tylenol and Motrin p.r.n., as well as oral decongestant and if coughing is not improving.

SUBJECTIVE: , This is a 42-year-old white female who comes in today for a complete physical and follow up on asthma.  She says her asthma has been worse over the last three months.  She has been using her inhaler daily.  Her allergies seem to be a little bit worse as well.  Her husband has been hauling corn and this seems to aggravate things.  She has not been taking Allegra daily but when she does take it, it seems to help somewhat.  She has not been taking her Flonase which has helped her in the past.  She also notes that in the past she was on Advair but she got some vaginal irritation with that.,She had been noticing increasing symptoms of irritability and PMS around her menstrual cycle.  She has been more impatient around that time.  Says otherwise her mood is normal during the rest of the month.  It usually is worse the week before her cycle and improves the day her menstrual cycle starts.  Menses have been regular but somewhat shorter than in the past.  Occasionally she will get some spotting after her cycles.  She denies any hot flashes or night sweats with this.  In reviewing the chart it is noted that she did have 3+ blood with what appeared to be a urinary tract infection previously.  Her urine has not been rechecked.  She recently had lab work and cholesterol drawn for a life insurance application and is going to send me those results when available.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , As above.  No fevers, no headaches, no shortness of breath currently.  No chest pain or tightness.  No abdominal pain, no heartburn, no constipation, diarrhea or dysuria.  Occasional stress incontinence.  No muscle or joint pain.  No concerns about her skin.  No polyphagia, polydipsia or polyuria.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Significant for asthma, allergic rhinitis and cervical dysplasia.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , She is married.  She is a nonsmoker.,MEDICATIONS: , Proventil and Allegra.,ALLERGIES: , Sulfa.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital signs:  Her weight is 151 pounds.  Blood pressure is 110/60.  Pulse is 72.  Temperature is 97.1 degrees.  Respirations are 20.,General:  This is a well-developed, well-nourished 42-year-old white female, alert and oriented in no acute distress.  Affect is appropriate and is pleasant.,HEENT:  Normocephalic, atraumatic.  Tympanic membranes are clear.  Conjunctivae are clear.  Pupils are equal, round and reactive to light.  Nares without turbinate edema.  Oropharynx is nonerythematous.,Neck:  Supple without lymphadenopathy, thyromegaly, carotid bruit or JVD.,Chest:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.,Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur.,Abdomen:  Soft, nontender, nondistended.  Normoactive bowel sounds.  No masses or organomegaly to palpation.,Extremities:  Without cyanosis or edema.,Skin:  Without abnormalities.,Breasts:  Normal symmetrical breasts without dimpling or retraction.  No nipple discharge.  No masses or lesions to palpation.  No axillary masses or lymphadenopathy.,Genitourinary:  Normal external genitalia.  The walls of the vaginal vault are visualized with normal pink rugae with no lesions noted.  Cervix is visualized without lesion.  She has a moderate amount of thick white/yellow vaginal discharge in the vaginal vault.  No cervical motion tenderness.  No adnexal tenderness or fullness.,ASSESSMENT/PLAN:,1.  Asthma.  Seems to be worse than in the past.  She is just using her Proventil inhaler but is using it daily.  We will add Flovent 44 mcg two puffs p.o. b.i.d.  May need to increase the dose.  She did get some vaginal irritation with Advair in the past but she is willing to retry that if it is necessary.  May also need to consider Singulair.  She is to call me if she is not improving.  If her shortness of breath worsens she is to call me or go into the emergency department.  We will plan on following up for reevaluation in one month.,2.  Allergic rhinitis.  We will plan on restarting Allegra and Flonase daily for the time being.,3.  Premenstrual dysphoric disorder.  She may have some perimenopausal symptoms.  We will start her on fluoxetine 20 mg one tablet p.o. q.d.,4.  Hematuria.  Likely this is secondary to urinary tract infection but we will repeat a UA to document clearing.  She does have some frequent dysuria but is not having it currently.,5.  Cervical dysplasia.  Pap smear is taken.  We will notify the patient of results.  If normal we will go back to yearly Pap smear.  She is scheduled for screening mammogram and instructed on monthly self-breast exam techniques.  Recommend she get 1200 mg of calcium and 400 U of vitamin D a day.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 76-year-old white female who presents to the clinic today originally for hypertension and a med check.  She has a history of hypertension, osteoarthritis, osteoporosis, hypothyroidism, allergic rhinitis and kidney stones.  Since her last visit she has been followed by Dr. Kumar.  Those issues are stable.  She has had no fever or chills, cough, congestion, nausea, vomiting, chest pain, chest pressure.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  She has an intolerance to Prevacid.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Evista 60 daily, Levothroid 0.05 mg daily, Claritin 10 daily, Celebrex 200 daily, HCTZ 25 daily and amitriptyline p.r.n.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:,  Bilateral mastectomies, tonsillectomy, EGD, flex sig in 2001 and a heart cath.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Father passed away at 81; mother of multiple myeloma at 83.,SOCIAL HISTORY:,  She is married.  A 76-year-old who used to smoke a pack a day and quit in 1985.  She is retired.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Essentially negative in HEENT, chest, cardiovascular, GI, GU, musculoskeletal, or neurologic.,OBJECTIVE:,  Temperature is 97.5 degrees.  Blood pressure is 168/70.  Pulse is 88.  Weight is 129 pounds.,GENERAL:  She is an elderly 76-year-old in no acute distress.,HEENT:  Atraumatic.  Extraocular muscles were intact.  Pupils equal, round and reactive to light and accommodation.  Tympanic membranes are clear, dry and intact.  Sinuses and throat are clear.  Neck is soft, supple.  No meningeal signs are present.  No thyromegaly is present.,CHEST:  Clear to auscultation.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur.,ABDOMEN:  Soft, nontender.  Bowel sounds are positive.  No organomegaly or peritoneal signs are present.,EXTREMITIES:  Moving all extremities.  Peripheral pulses are normal.  No edema is present.,NEUROLOGIC:  Alert and oriented.  Cranial nerves II-XII grossly intact.  Strength 5+/5 globally.  Reflexes 2+/IV globally.  Romberg is negative.  There is no numbness, tingling, weakness or other neurologic deficit present.,BREASTS:  Surgically absent but there are no lumps, lesions, masses, discharge or adenopathy present.,BACK:  Straight.,SKIN:  Clear.,GENITALIA:  Deferred as she has been followed by Dr. XYZ many times this year.  She does have a history of some elevated cholesterol.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Hypertension, suboptimal control.,2.  Hypothyroidism.,3.  Arthritis.,4.  Allergic rhinitis.,5.  History of kidney stones.,6.  Osteoporosis.,PLAN:,1.  CBC, complete metabolic profile, UA for hypertension.,2.  Chest x-ray for history of breast cancer.,3.  DEXA scan, full body for osteoporosis.,4.  Flex is up to date.,5.  Pneumovax has been given in the last five years.,6.  Lipid profile for elevated cholesterol.,7.  Refill meds.,8.  Follow up every three to six months for blood pressure check or sooner p.r.n. problems.

SUBJECTIVE:,  Grandfather brings the patient in today because of headaches, mostly in her face.  She is feeling pressure there with a lot of sniffles.  Last night, she complained of sore throat and a loose cough.  Over the last three days, she has had a rash on her face, back and arms.  A lot of fifth disease at school.  She says it itches and they have been doing some Benadryl for this.  She has not had any wheezing lately and is not taking any ongoing medications for her asthma.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Asthma and allergies.,FAMILY HISTORY:  ,Sister is dizzy but no other acute illnesses.,OBJECTIVE:,General:  The patient is an 11-year-old female.  Alert and cooperative.  No acute distress.,Neck:  Supple without adenopathy.,HEENT:  Ear canals clear.  TMs, bilaterally, gray in color and good light reflex.  Oropharynx is pink and moist.  No erythema or exudates.  She has postnasal discharge.  Nares are swollen and red.  Purulent discharge in the posterior turbinates.  Both maxillary sinuses are tender.  She has some mild tenderness in the left frontal sinus.  Eyes are puffy and she has dark circles.,Chest:  Respirations are regular and nonlabored.,Lungs:  Clear to auscultation throughout.,Heart:  Regular rhythm without murmur.,Skin:  Warm, dry and pink.  Moist mucous membranes.  Red, lacey rash from the wrists to the elbows, both sides.  It is very faint on the lower back and she has reddened cheeks, as well.,ASSESSMENT:,  Fifth disease with sinusitis.,PLAN:,  Omnicef 300 mg daily for 10 days.  May use some Zyrtec for the itching.  Samples are given.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This 46-year-old white male with Down’s syndrome presents with his mother for followup of hypothyroidism, as well as onychomycosis.  He has finished six weeks of Lamisil without any problems.  He is due to have an ALT check today.  At his appointment in April, I also found that he was hypothyroid with elevated TSH.  He was started on Levothroid 0.1 mg and has been taking that daily.  We will recheck a TSH today as well.  His mother notes that although he does not like to take the medications, he is taking it with encouragement.  His only other medications are some eyedrops for his cornea.,OBJECTIVE:,  Weight was 149 pounds, which is up 2 pounds.  Blood pressure was 120/80.  Pulse is 80 and regular.,Neck:  Supple without adenopathy.  No thyromegaly or nodules were palpable.,Cardiac:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmurs.,Skin:  Examination of the toenails showed really no change yet.  They are still quite thickened and yellowed.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Down’s syndrome.,2.  Onychomycosis.,3.  Hypothyroidism.,PLAN:,1.  Recheck ALT and TSH today and call results.,2.  Lamisil 250 mg #30 one p.o. daily with one refill.  They will complete the next eight weeks of therapy as long as the ALT is normal.  I again reviewed the symptoms of liver dysfunction.,3.  Continue Levothroid 0.1 mg daily unless dosage need to be adjusted based on the TSH.

SUBJECTIVE:,  I am asked to see the patient today with ongoing issues around her diabetic control.  We have been fairly aggressively, downwardly adjusting her insulins, both the Lantus insulin, which we had been giving at night as well as her sliding scale Humalog insulin prior to meals.  Despite frequent decreases in her insulin regimen, she continues to have somewhat low blood glucoses, most notably in the morning when the glucoses have been in the 70s despite decreasing her Lantus insulin from around 84 units down to 60 units, which is a considerable change.  What I cannot explain is why her glucoses have not really climbed at all despite the decrease in insulin.  The staff reports to me that her appetite is good and that she is eating as well as ever.  I talked to Anna today.  She feels a little fatigued.  Otherwise, she is doing well.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  ,Vitals as in the chart.  The patient is a pleasant and cooperative.  She is in no apparent distress.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: , Diabetes, still with some problematic low blood glucoses, most notably in the morning.  To address this situation, I am going to hold her Lantus insulin tonight and decrease and then change the administration time to in the morning.  She will get 55 units in the morning.  I am also decreasing once again her Humalog sliding scale insulin prior to meals.  I will review the blood glucoses again next week.,

SUBJECTIVE: , Review of the medical record shows that the patient is a 97-year-old female patient who has been admitted and has been treated for community acquired pneumonia along with COPD exacerbation.  The patient does have a longstanding history of COPD.  However, she does not use oxygen at her independent assisted living home.  Yesterday, she had made improvement since being here at the hospital.  She needed oxygen.  She was tested for home O2 and qualified for it yesterday also.  Her lungs were very tight.  She did have wheezes bilaterally and rhonchi on the right side mostly.  She appeared to be a bit weak and although she was requesting to be discharged home, she did not appear to be fit for it.,Overnight, the patient needed to use the rest room.  She stated that she needed to urinate.  She awoke, decided not to call for assistance.  She stated that she did have her nurse call light button next to her and she was unable to gain access to her walker.  She attempted to walk to the rest room on her own.  She sustained a fall.  She stated that she just felt weak.  She bumped her knee and her elbow.  She had femur x-rays, knee x-rays also.  There was possibility of subchondral fracture and some swelling of her suprapatellar bursa on the right side.  This morning, she denied any headache, back pain or neck pain.  She complained mostly of right anterior knee pain for which she had some bruising and swelling.,OBJECTIVE:,VITAL SIGNS:  The patient's max temperature over the past 24 hours was 36.5; her blood pressure is 148/77, her pulse is 87 to 106.  She is 95% on 2 L via nasal cannula.,HEART:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur, gallop or rub.,LUNGS:  Reveal no expiratory wheezing throughout.  She does have some rhonchi on the right mid base.  She did have a productive cough this morning and she is coughing green purulent sputum finally.,ABDOMEN:  Soft and nontender.  Her bowel sounds x4 are normoactive.,NEUROLOGIC:  She is alert and oriented x3.  Her pupils are equal and reactive.  She has got a good head and facial muscle strength.  Her tongue is midline.  She has got clear speech.  Her extraocular motions are intact.  Her spine is nontender on palpation from neck to lumbar spine.  She has good range of motion with regard to her shoulders, elbows, wrists and fingers.  Her grip strengths are equal bilaterally.  Both elbows are strong from extension to flexion.  Her hip flexors and extenders are also strong and equal bilaterally.  Extension and flexion of the knee bilaterally and ankles also are strong.  Palpation of her right knee reveals no crepitus.  She does have suprapatellar inflammation with some ecchymosis and swelling.  She has got good joint range of motion however.,SKIN:  She did have a skin tear involving her right forearm lateral, which is approximately 2 to 2.5 inches in length and is at this time currently Steri-Stripped and wrapped with Coban and is not actively bleeding.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Acute on chronic COPD exacerbation.,2.  Community acquired pneumonia both resolving.  However, she may need home O2 for a short period of time.,3.  Generalized weakness and deconditioning secondary to the above.  Also sustained a fall secondary to instability and not using her walker or calling for assistance.  The patient stated that she knew better and she should have called for assistance and she had been told repeatedly from her family members and staff to call for assistance if she needed to get out of bed.,PLAN:,1.  I will have PT and OT evaluate the patient and give recommendation to safety and appliance use at home i.e. walker.  Myself and one of her daughter's spoke today about the fact that she generally lives independently at the Brooke and she may need assisted living along with physical therapy and oxygen for a period of time rather than going back to independent living.,2.  We will obtain an orthopedic consult secondary to her fall to evaluate her x-rays and function.

SUBJECTIVE: , The patient states that she feels better.  She is on IV amiodarone, the dosage pattern is appropriate for ventricular tachycardia.  Researching the available records, I find only an EMS verbal statement that tachycardia of wide complex was seen.  There is no strip for me to review all available EKG tracings show a narrow complex atrial fibrillation pattern that is now converted to sinus rhythm.,The patient states that for a week, she has been home postoperative from aortic valve replacement on 12/01/08 at ABC Medical Center.  The aortic stenosis was secondary to a congenital bicuspid valve, by her description.  She states that her shortness of breath with exertion has been stable, but has yet to improve from its preoperative condition.  She has not had any decline in her postoperative period of her tolerance to exertion.,The patient had noted intermittent bursts of fast heart rate at home that had been increasing over the last several days.  Last night, she had a prolonged episode for which she contacted EMS.  Her medications at home had been uninterrupted and without change from those listed, being Toprol-XL 100 mg q.a.m., Dyazide 25/37.5 mg, Nexium 40 mg, all taken once a day.  She has been maintaining her Crestor and Zetia at 20 and 10 mg respectively.  She states that she has been taking her aspirin at 325 mg q.a.m.  She remains on Zyrtec 10 mg q.a.m.  Her only allergy is listed to latex.,OBJECTIVE:,VITAL SIGNS:  Temperature 36.1, heart rate 60, respirations 14, room air saturation 98%, and blood pressure 108/60.  The patient shows a normal sinus rhythm on the telemetry monitor with an occasional PAC.,GENERAL:  She is alert and in no apparent distress.,HEENT:  Eyes:  EOMI.  PERRLA.  Sclerae nonicteric.  No lesions of lids, lashes, brows, or conjunctivae noted.  Funduscopic examination unremarkable.  Ears:  Normal set, shape, TMs, canals and hearing.  Nose and Sinuses:  Negative.  Mouth, Tongue, Teeth, and Throat:  Negative except for dental work.,NECK:  Supple and pain free without bruit, JVD, adenopathy or thyroid abnormality.,CHEST:  Lungs are clear bilaterally to auscultation.  The incision is well healed and without evidence of significant cellulitis.,HEART:  Shows a regular rate and rhythm without murmur, gallop, heave, click, thrill or rub.  There is an occasional extra beat noted, which corresponds to a premature atrial contraction on the monitor.,ABDOMEN:  Soft and benign without hepatosplenomegaly, rebound, rigidity or guarding.,EXTREMITIES:  Show no evidence of DVT, acute arthritis, cellulitis or pedal edema.,NEUROLOGIC:  Nonfocal without lateralizing findings for cranial or peripheral nervous systems, strength, sensation, and cerebellar function.  Gait and station were not tested.,MENTAL STATUS:  Shows the patient to be alert, coherent with full capacity for decision making.,BACK:  Negative to inspection or percussion.,LABORATORY DATA: , Shows from 12/15/08 2100, hemoglobin 11.6, white count 12.9, and platelets 126,000.  INR 1.0.  Electrolytes are normal with exception potassium 3.3.  GFR is decreased at 50 with creatinine of 1.1.  Glucose was 119.  Magnesium was 2.3.  Phosphorus 3.8.  Calcium was slightly low at 7.8.  The patient has had ionized calcium checked at Munson that was normal at 4.5 prior to her discharge.  Troponin is negative x2 from 2100 and repeat at 07:32.  This morning, her BNP was 163 at admission.  Her admission chest x-ray was unremarkable and did not show evidence of cardiomegaly to suggest pericardial effusion.  Her current EKG tracing from 05:42 shows a sinus bradycardia with Wolff-Parkinson White Pattern, a rate of 58 beats per minute, and a corrected QT interval of 557 milliseconds.  Her PR interval was 0.12.,We received a call from Munson Medical Center that a bed had been arranged for the patient.  I contacted Dr. Varner and we reviewed the patient's managed to this point.  All combined impression is that the patient was likely to not have had actual ventricular tachycardia.  This is based on her EP study from October showing her to be non-inducible.  In addition, she had a cardiac catheterization that showed no evidence of coronary artery disease.  What is most likely that the patient has postoperative atrial fibrillation.  Her WPW may have degenerated into a ventricular tachycardia, but this is unlikely.  At this point, we will convert the patient from IV amiodarone to oral amiodarone and obtain an echocardiogram to verify that she does not have evidence of pericardial effusion in the postoperative period.  I will recheck her potassium, magnesium, calcium, and phosphorus at this point and make adjustments if indicated.  Dr. Varner will be making arrangements for an outpatient Holter monitor and further followup post-discharge.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response.,2.  Wolff-Parkinson White Syndrome.,3.  Recent aortic valve replacement with bioprosthetic Medtronic valve.,4.  Hyperlipidemia.

SUBJECTIVE: , She is a 79-year-old female who came in with acute cholecystitis and underwent attempted laparoscopic cholecystectomy 8 days ago.  The patient has required conversion to an open procedure due to difficult anatomy.  Her postoperative course has been lengthened due to a prolonged ileus, which resolved with tetracycline and Reglan.  The patient is starting to improve, gain more strength.  She is tolerating her regular diet.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,VITAL SIGNS:  Today, her temperature is 98.4, heart rate 84, respirations 20, and BP is 140/72.,LUNGS:  Clear to auscultation.  No wheezes, rales, or rhonchi.,HEART:  Regular rhythm and rate.,ABDOMEN:  Soft, less tender.,LABORATORY DATA:,  Her white count continues to come down.  Today, it is 11.6, H&H of 8.8 and 26.4, platelets 359,000.  We have ordered type and cross for 2 units of packed red blood cells.  If it drops below 25, she will receive a transfusion.  Her electrolytes today show a glucose of 107, sodium 137, potassium 4.0, chloride 103.2, bicarbonate 29.7.  Her AST is 43, ALT is 223, her alkaline phosphatase is 214, and her bilirubin is less than 0.10.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,  She had a bowel movement today and is continuing to improve.,I anticipate another 3 days in the hospital for strengthening and continued TPN and resolution of elevated white count.

SUBJECTIVE:  ,The patient seen and examined feels better today.  Still having diarrhea, decreased appetite.  Good urine output 600 mL since 7 o'clock in the morning.  Afebrile.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION,GENERAL:  Nonacute distress, awake, alert, and oriented x3.,VITAL SIGNS:  Blood pressure 102/64, heart rate of 89, respiratory rate of 12, temperature 96.8, and O2 saturation 94% on room air.,HEENT:  PERRLA, EOMI.,NECK:  Supple.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  Regular rate and rhythm.,RESPIRATORY:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.,ABDOMEN:  Bowel sounds are positive, soft, and nontender. EXTREMITIES:  No edema.  Pulses present bilaterally.,LABORATORY DATA:  ,CBC, WBC count today down 10.9 from 17.3 yesterday 26.9 on admission, hemoglobin 10.2, hematocrit 31.3, and platelet count 370,000.  BMP, BUN of 28.3 from 32.2, creatinine 1.8 from 1.89 from 2.7.  Calcium of 8.2.  Sodium 139, potassium 3.9, chloride 108, and CO2 of 22.  Liver function test is unremarkable.,Stool positive for Clostridium difficile.  Blood culture was 131.  O2 saturation result is pending.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,1.  Most likely secondary to Clostridium difficile colitis and urinary tract infection improving.  The patient hemodynamically stable, leukocytosis improved and today he is afebrile.,2.  Acute renal failure secondary to dehydration, BUN and creatinine improving.,3.  Clostridium difficile colitis, Continue Flagyl, evaluation Dr. X in a.m.,4.  Urinary tract infection, continue Levaquin for last during culture.,5.  Leucocytosis, improving.,6.  Minimal elevated cardiac enzyme on admission.  Followup with Cardiology recommendations.,7.  Possible pneumonia, continue vancomycin and Levaquin.,8.  The patient may be transferred to telemetry.

SUBJECTIVE: , The patient is a 60-year-old female, who complained of coughing during meals.  Her outpatient evaluation revealed a mild-to-moderate cognitive linguistic deficit, which was completed approximately 2 months ago.  The patient had a history of hypertension and TIA/stroke.  The patient denied history of heartburn and/or gastroesophageal reflux disorder.  A modified barium swallow study was ordered to objectively evaluate the patient's swallowing function and safety and to rule out aspiration.,OBJECTIVE: , Modified barium swallow study was performed in the Radiology Suite in cooperation with Dr. ABC.  The patient was seated upright in a video imaging chair throughout this assessment.  To evaluate the patient's swallowing function and safety, she was administered graduated amounts of liquid and food mixed with barium in the form of thin liquid (teaspoon x2, cup sip x2); nectar-thick liquid (teaspoon x2, cup sip x2); puree consistency (teaspoon x2); and solid food consistency (1/4 cracker x1).,ASSESSMENT,ORAL STAGE:,  Premature spillage to the level of the valleculae and pyriform sinuses with thin liquid.  Decreased tongue base retraction, which contributed to vallecular pooling after the swallow.,PHARYNGEAL STAGE: , No aspiration was observed during this evaluation.  Penetration was noted with cup sips of thin liquid only.  Trace residual on the valleculae and on tongue base with nectar-thick puree and solid consistencies.  The patient's hyolaryngeal elevation and anterior movement are within functional limits.  Epiglottic inversion is within functional limits.,CERVICAL ESOPHAGEAL STAGE:  ,The patient's upper esophageal sphincter opening is well coordinated with swallow and readily accepted the bolus.  Radiologist noted reduced peristaltic action of the constricted muscles in the esophagus, which may be contributing to the patient's complaint of globus sensation.,DIAGNOSTIC IMPRESSION:,  No aspiration was noted during this evaluation.  Penetration with cup sips of thin liquid.  The patient did cough during this evaluation, but that was noted related to aspiration or penetration.,PROGNOSTIC IMPRESSION: ,Based on this evaluation, the prognosis for swallowing and safety is good.,PLAN: , Based on this evaluation and following recommendations are being made:,1.  The patient to take small bite and small sips to help decrease the risk of aspiration and penetration.,2.  The patient should remain upright at a 90-degree angle for at least 45 minutes after meals to decrease the risk of aspiration and penetration as well as to reduce her globus sensation.,3.  The patient should be referred to a gastroenterologist for further evaluation of her esophageal function.,The patient does not need any skilled speech therapy for her swallowing abilities at this time, and she is discharged from my services.

SUBJECTIVE:,  A 6-year-old boy who underwent tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy two weeks ago.  Also, I cleaned out his maxillary sinuses.  Symptoms included loud snoring at night, sinus infections, throat infections, not sleeping well, and fatigue.  The surgery went well, and I had planned for him to stay overnight, but Mom reminds me that by about 8 p.m. the night nurse gotten him to take fluids well and we let him go home then that evening.  He finished up his Augmentin, by a day or two later he was off the Lortab.  Mom has not noticed any unusual voice change.  No swallowing difficulty except he does not like the taste of acidic foods such as tomato sauce.  He has not had any nasal discharge or ever had any bleeding.  He seems to be breathing better.,OBJECTIVE:,  Exam looks good.  The pharynx is well healed.  Tongue mobility is normal.  Voice sounds clear.  Nasal passages reveal no discharge or crusting.,RECOMMENDATION:,  I told Mom it is okay to use some ibuprofen in case his mouth or jaws are still sensitive.  He says it seems to hurt if he opens his mouth real wide such as when he brushes his teeth.  It is okay to chew gum and it is okay to eat crunchy foods such as potato chips.  The pathologist described the expected changes of chronic sinusitis and chronic hypertrophic tonsillitis and adenoiditis, and there were no atypical findings on the laboratories.,I am glad he has healed up well.  There are no other restrictions or limitations.  I told Mom, I had written to Dr. XYZ to let her know of the findings.  The child will continue his regular followup visits with his family doctor, and I told Mom I would be happy to see him anytime if needed.  He did very well after surgery and he seems to feel better and breathe a lot better after his throat and sinus procedure.

SUBJECTIVE:,  I am asked to see the patient today with ongoing issues around her diabetic control.  We have been fairly aggressively, downwardly adjusting her insulins, both the Lantus insulin, which we had been giving at night as well as her sliding scale Humalog insulin prior to meals.  Despite frequent decreases in her insulin regimen, she continues to have somewhat low blood glucoses, most notably in the morning when the glucoses have been in the 70s despite decreasing her Lantus insulin from around 84 units down to 60 units, which is a considerable change.  What I cannot explain is why her glucoses have not really climbed at all despite the decrease in insulin.  The staff reports to me that her appetite is good and that she is eating as well as ever.  I talked to Anna today.  She feels a little fatigued.  Otherwise, she is doing well.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  ,Vitals as in the chart.  The patient is a pleasant and cooperative.  She is in no apparent distress.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: , Diabetes, still with some problematic low blood glucoses, most notably in the morning.  To address this situation, I am going to hold her Lantus insulin tonight and decrease and then change the administration time to in the morning.  She will get 55 units in the morning.  I am also decreasing once again her Humalog sliding scale insulin prior to meals.  I will review the blood glucoses again next week.,

SUBJECTIVE:  ,This 68-year-old man presents to the emergency department for three days of cough, claims that he has brought up some green and grayish sputum.  He says he does not feel short of breath.  He denies any fever or chills.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,HEENT:  Denies any severe headache or sore throat.,CHEST:  No true pain.,GI:  No nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea.,PAST HISTORY:,  He states that he is on Coumadin because he had a cardioversion done two months ago for atrial fibrillation.  He also lists some other medications.  I do have his medications list.  He is on Pacerone, Zaroxolyn, albuterol inhaler, Neurontin, Lasix, and several other medicines.  Those are the predominant medicines.  He is not a diabetic.  The past history otherwise, he has had smoking history, but he quit several years ago and denies any COPD or emphysema.  No one else in the family is sick.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,GENERAL:  The patient appears comfortable.  He did not appear to be in any respiratory distress.  He was alert.  I heard him cough once during the entire encounter.  He did not bring up any sputum at that time.,VITAL SIGNS:  His temperature is 98, pulse 71, respiratory rate 18, blood pressure 122/57, and pulse ox is 95% on room air.,HEENT:  Throat was normal.,RESPIRATORY:  He was breathing normally.  There was clear and equal breath sounds.  He was speaking in full sentences.  There was no accessory muscle use.,HEART:  Sounded regular.,SKIN:  Normal color, warm and dry.,NEUROLOGIC:  Neurologically he was alert.,IMPRESSION: , Viral syndrome, which we have been seeing in many cases throughout the week.  The patient asked me about antibiotics and I did not see a need to do this since he did not appear to have an infection other than viral given his normal temperature, normal pulse, normal respiratory rate, and near normal oxygen.  The patient being on Coumadin I explained to him that unless there was a solid reason to put him on antibiotics, he would be advised not to do so because antibiotics can alter the gut floor causing the INR to increase while on Coumadin which may cause serious bleeding.  The patient understands this.  I then asked him if the cough was annoying him, he said it was.  I offered him a cough syrup, which he agreed to take.  The patient was then discharged with Tussionex Pennkinetic a hydrocodone time-release cough syrup.  I told to check in three days, if the symptoms were not getting better.  The patient appeared to be content with this treatment and was discharged in approximately 30 to 45 minutes later.  His wife calls me very angry that I did not give him antibiotics.  I explained her exactly what I explained to him that they were not indicative at this time, and she became very upset saying that they came there specifically for antibiotics and I explained again that antibiotics are not indicated for viral infection and that I did not think he had a bacterial infection.,DIAGNOSIS: , Viral respiratory illness.

SUBJECTIVE: , The patient is a 20-year-old Caucasian male admitted via ABCD Hospital Emergency Department for evaluation of hydrocarbon aspiration.  The patient ingested "tiki oil" (kerosene, liquid paraffin, citronella oil) approximately two days prior to admission.  He subsequently developed progressive symptoms of dyspnea, pleuritic chest pain, hemoptysis with nausea and vomiting.  He was seen in the ABCD Hospital Emergency Department, toxic appearing with an abnormal chest x-ray demonstrating bilateral lower lobe infiltrates, greater on the right.  He had a temperature of 38.3 with tachycardia approximating 130.  White count was 59,300 with a marked left shift.  Arterial blood gases showed pH 7.48, pO2 79, and pCO2 35.  He was admitted for further medical management.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Aplastic crisis during childhood requiring splenectomy and a cholecystectomy at age 9.,DRUG ALLERGIES: , NONE KNOWN.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS: , None.,FAMILY HISTORY:  ,Noncontributory.,SOCIAL HISTORY:  ,The patient works at a local Christmas tree farm.  He smokes cigarettes approximately one pack per day.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Ten-system review significant for nausea, vomiting, fever, hemoptysis, and pleuritic chest pain.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION,GENERAL:  A toxic-appearing 20-year-old Caucasian male, in mild respiratory distress.,VITAL SIGNS:  Blood pressure 122/74, pulse 130 and regular, respirations 24, temperature 38.3, and oxygen saturation 93%.,SKIN:  No rashes, petechiae or ecchymoses.,HEENT:  Within normal limits.  Pupils are equally round and reactive to light and accommodation.  Ears clean.  Throat clean.,NECK:  Supple without thyromegaly.  Lymph nodes are nonpalpable.,CHEST:  Decreased breath sounds bilaterally, greater on the right, at the right base.,CARDIAC:  No murmur or gallop rhythm.,ABDOMEN:  Mild direct diffuse tenderness without rebound.  No detectable masses, pulsations or organomegaly.,EXTREMITIES:  No edema.  Pulses are equal and full bilaterally.,NEUROLOGIC:  Nonfocal.,DATABASE: , Chest x-ray, bilateral lower lobe pneumonia, greater on the right.  EKG, sinus tachycardia, rate of 130, normal intervals, no ST changes.  Arterial blood gases on 2 L of oxygen, pH 7.48, pO2 79, and pCO2 35.,BLOOD STUDIES: , Hematocrit is 43, WBC 59,300 with a left shift, and platelet count 394,000.  Sodium is 130, potassium 3.8, chloride 97, bicarbonate 24, BUN 14, creatinine 0.8, random blood sugar 147, and calcium 9.4.,IMPRESSION,1.  Hydrocarbon aspiration.,2.  Bilateral pneumonia with pneumonitis secondary to aspiration.,3.  Asplenic patient.,PLAN,1.  ICU monitoring.,2.  O2 protocol.,3.  Hydration.,4.  Antiemetic therapy.,5.  Parenteral antibiotics.,6.  Prophylactic proton pump inhibitors.,The patient will need ICU monitoring and Pulmonary Medicine evaluation pending clinical course.,

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is keeping a food journal that she brought in.  She is counting calorie points, which ranged 26 to 30 per day.  She is exercising pretty regularly.  She attends Overeaters Anonymous and her sponsor is helping her and told her to get some ideas on how to plan snacks to prevent hypoglycemia.  The patient requests information on diabetic exchanges.  She said she is feeling better since she has lost weight.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital Signs:  The patient's weight today is 209 pounds, which is down 22 pounds since I last saw her on 06/07/2004.  I praised her weight loss and her regular exercising.  I looked at her food journal.  I praised her record keeping.  I gave her a list of the diabetic exchanges and explained them.  I also gave her a food dairy sheet so that she could record exchanges.  I encouraged her to continue.,ASSESSMENT:,  The patient seems happy with her progress and she seems to be doing well.  She needs to continue.,PLAN:,  Followup is on a p.r.n. basis.  She is always welcome to call or return.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a 56-year-old female who comes in for a dietary consultation for hyperlipidemia, hypertension, gastroesophageal reflux disease and weight reduction.  The patient states that her husband has been diagnosed with high blood cholesterol as well.  She wants some support with some dietary recommendations to assist both of them in healthier eating.  The two of them live alone now, and she is used to cooking for large portions.  She is having a hard time adjusting to preparing food for the two of them.  She would like to do less food preparation, in fact.  She is starting a new job this week.,OBJECTIVE:,  Her reported height is 5 feet 4 inches.  Today’s weight was 170 pounds.  BMI is approximately 29.  A diet history was obtained.  I instructed the patient on a 1200 calorie meal plan emphasizing low-saturated fat sources with moderate amounts of sodium as well.  Information on fast food eating was supplied, and additional information on low-fat eating was also supplied.,ASSESSMENT:,  The patient’s basal energy expenditure is estimated at 1361 calories a day.  Her total calorie requirement for weight maintenance is estimated at 1759 calories a day.  Her diet history reflects that she is making some very healthy food choices on a regular basis.  She does emphasize a lot of fruits and vegetables, trying to get a fruit or a vegetable or both at most meals.  She also is emphasizing lower fat selections.  Her physical activity level is moderate at this time.  She is currently walking for 20 minutes four or five days out of the week but at a very moderate pace with a friend.  We reviewed the efforts at weight reduction identifying 3500 calories in a pound of body fat and the need to gradually and slowly chip away at this number on a long-term basis for weight reduction.  We discussed the need to reduce calories from what her current patterns are and to hopefully increase physical activity slightly as well.  We discussed menu selection, as well as food preparation techniques.  The patient appears to have been influenced by the current low-carb, high-protein craze and had really limited her food selections based on that.  I was able to give her some more room for variety including some moderate portions of potatoes, pasta and even on occasion breading her meat as long as she prepares it in a low-fat fashion which was discussed.,PLAN:,  Recommend the patient increase the intensity and the duration of her physical activity with a goal of 30 minutes five days a week working at a brisk walk.  Recommend the patient reduce calories by 500 daily to support a weight loss of one pound a week.  This translates into a 1200-calorie meal plan.  I encouraged the patient to keep food records in order to better track calories consumed.  I recommended low fat selections and especially those that are lower in saturated fats.  Emphasis would be placed on moderating portions of meat and having more moderate snacks between meals as well.  This was a one-hour consultation.  I provided my name and number should additional needs arise.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a 38-year-old female who comes for dietary consultation for gestational diabetes.  Patient reports that she is scared to eat because of its impact on her blood sugars.  She is actually trying not to eat while she is working third shift at Wal-Mart.  Historically however, she likes to eat out with a high frequency.  She enjoys eating rice as part of her meals.  She is complaining of feeling fatigued and tired all the time because she works from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m. at Wal-Mart and has young children at home.  She sleeps two to four hours at a time throughout the day.  She has been testing for ketones first thing in the morning when she gets home from work.,OBJECTIVE:,  Today's weight:  155.5 pounds.  Weight from 10/07/04 was 156.7 pounds.  A diet history was obtained.  Blood sugar records for the last three days reveal the following:  fasting blood sugars 83, 84, 87, 77; two-hour postprandial breakfast 116, 107, 97; pre-lunch 85, 108, 77; two-hour postprandial lunch 86, 131, 100; pre-supper 78, 91, 100; two-hour postprandial supper 125, 121, 161; bedtime 104, 90 and 88.  I instructed the patient on dietary guidelines for gestational diabetes.  The Lily Guide for Meal Planning was provided and reviewed.  Additional information on gestational diabetes was applied.  A sample 2000-calorie meal plan was provided with a carbohydrate budget established.,ASSESSMENT:,  Patient's basal energy expenditure adjusted for obesity is estimated at 1336 calories a day.  Her total calorie requirements, including a physical activity factor as well as additional calories for pregnancy, totals to 2036 calories per day.  Her diet history reveals that she has somewhat irregular eating patterns.  In the last 24 hours when she was working at Wal-Mart, she ate at 5 a.m. but did not eat anything prior to that since starting work at 10 p.m.  We discussed the need for small frequent eating.  We identified carbohydrate as the food source that contributes to the blood glucose response.  We identified carbohydrate sources in the food supply, recognizing that they are all good for her.  The only carbohydrates she was asked to entirely avoid would be the concentrated forms of refined sugars.  In regard to use of her traditional foods of rice, I pulled out a one-third cup measuring cup to identify a 15-gram equivalent of rice.  We discussed the need for moderating the portion of carbohydrates consumed at one given time.  Emphasis was placed at eating with a high frequency with a goal of eating every two to four hours over the course of the day when she is awake.  Her weight loss was discouraged.  Patient was encouraged to eat more generously but with attention to the amount of carbohydrates consumed at a time.,PLAN:,  The meal plan provided has a carbohydrate content that represents 40 percent of a 2000-calorie meal plan.  The meal plan was devised to distribute her carbohydrates more evenly throughout the day.  The meal plan was meant to reflect an example for her eating, while the patient was encouraged to eat according to appetite and not to go without eating for long periods of time.  The meal plan is as follows:  breakfast 2 carbohydrate servings, snack 1 carbohydrate serving, lunch 2-3 carbohydrate servings, snack 1 carbohydrate serving, dinner 2-3 carbohydrate servings, bedtime snack 1-2 carbohydrate servings.  Recommend patient include a solid protein with each of her meals as well as with her snack that occurs before going to sleep.  Encouraged adequate rest.  Also recommend adequate calories to sustain weight gain of one-half to one pound per week.  If the meal plan reflected does not support slow gradual weight gain, then we will need to add more foods accordingly.  This was a one-hour consultation.  I provided my name and number should additional needs arise.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a 28-year-old female who comes for dietary consultation for diabetes during pregnancy.  Patient reports that she had gestational diabetes with her first pregnancy.  She did use insulin at that time as well.  She does not fully understand what ketones are.  She walks her daughter to school and back home each day which takes 20 minutes each way.  She is not a big milk drinker, but she does try to drink some.,OBJECTIVE:,  Weight is 238.3 pounds.  Weight from last week’s visit was 238.9 pounds.  Prepregnancy weight is reported at 235 pounds.  Height is 62-3/4 inches.  Prepregnancy BMI is approximately 42-1/2.  Insulin schedule is NovoLog 70/30, 20 units in the morning and 13 units at supper time.  Blood sugar records for the last week reveal the following:  Fasting blood sugars ranging from 92 to 104 with an average of 97, two-hour postprandial breakfast readings ranging from 172 to 196 with an average of 181, two-hour postprandial lunch readings ranging from 149 to 189 with an average of 168 and two-hour postprandial dinner readings ranging from 109 to 121 with an average of 116.  Overall average is 140.  A diet history was obtained.  Expected date of confinement is May 1, 2005.  Instructed the patient on dietary guidelines for gestational diabetes.  A 2300 meal plan was provided and reviewed.  The Lily Guide for Meal Planning was provided and reviewed.,ASSESSMENT:,  Patient’s basal energy expenditure adjusted for obesity is estimated at 1566 calories a day.  Her total calorie requirements, including physical activity factors as well as additional calories for pregnancy, totals 2367 calories a day.  Her diet history reveals that she is eating three meals a day and three snacks.  The snacks were just added last week following presence of ketones in her urine.  We identified carbohydrate sources in the food supply, recognizing that they are the foods that raise blood sugar the most.  We identified 15 gram equivalents of carbohydrate and established a carbohydrate budget.  We also discussed the goal of balancing food intake with blood sugar control and adequate caloric intake to sustain appropriate weight gain for the pregnancy of 1/2 a pound a week through the duration of the pregnancy.  We discussed the physiology of ketone production from inadequate calories or inadequate insulin and elevated blood sugars.  While a sample meal plan was provided reflecting the patient’s carbohydrate budget I emphasized the need for her to eat according to her appetite, but to work at consistency in the volume of carbohydrates consumed at a given meal or a given snack from day to day.  Patient was assured that we can titrate the insulin to match whatever eating pattern is suitable for her as long as she can do it on a consistent basis.  At the same time she was encouraged to continue to eliminate the more concentrated forms of refined carbohydrates.,PLAN:,  Recommend the patient work with the following meal plan with a carbohydrate budget representing approximately 45% of the calories from carbohydrate.  Breakfast:  Three carbohydrate servings.  Morning snack:  One carbohydrate serving.  Lunch:  Four carbohydrate servings.  Afternoon snack:  One carbohydrate serving.  Supper:  Four carbohydrate servings.  Bedtime snack:  One carbohydrate serving.  Encouraged patient to include some solid protein with each of her meals as well as with the bedtime snack.  Encouraged three servings of dairy products per day to meet nutritional needs for calcium during pregnancy.  Recommend patient include a fruit or a vegetable with most of her meals.  Also recommend including solid protein with each meal as well as with the bedtime snack.  Charlie Athene reviewed blood sugars at this consultation as well, and made the following insulin adjustment:  Morning 70/30, will increase from 20 units up to 24 units and evening 70/30, we will increase from 13 units up to 16 units.  Patient was encouraged to call in blood sugars at the end of the week if they are outside of the range of over 90 fasting and over 120 two-hour postprandial.  Provided my name and number should there be additional dietary questions.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a followup dietary consultation for hyperlipidemia, hypertension, and possible metabolic syndrome.  The patient reports that she has worked hard for a number of weeks following the meal plan prescribed, but felt like she was gaining weight and not losing weight on it.  She is not sure that she was following it accurately.  She is trying to walk 1-1/2 to 2 miles every other day, but is increasing her time in the garden and doing other yard work as well.  Once she started experiencing some weight gain, she went back to her old South Beach Diet and felt like she was able to take some of that weight off.  However she realizes that the South Beach Diet is not a healthy diet for her and so is coming back for better instruction on safe weight loss and low-fat eating.,OBJECTIVE:,  Weight is 275 pounds.  Food records were reviewed.,ASSESSMENT:,  The patient experienced a weight gain of 2 pounds since our last consultation which was two months ago.  I did carefully review her food records and evaluated calories consumed.  While she was carefully tracking the volume of protein and carbohydrates, she was getting some excess calories from the fatty proteins selected.  Thus we rearranged her meal plan a little bit and talked about how to track her fat calories as well.  She was more open to reducing the amount of protein from the previous meal plan and increasing slightly the amount of carbohydrates.  While this still is not as much carbohydrate as I would normally recommend, I am certainly willing to work with her on how she feels her body best handles weight reduction.  We also discussed a snack that could be eliminated in the morning because she really is not hungry at that time.,PLAN:,  A new 1500 calorie meal plan was developed based on 35% of the calories coming from protein, 40% of the calories from carbohydrate, and 25% of the calories from fat.  This translates in to 10 servings at 15 grams a piece of carbohydrates throughout the day dividing them in to groups of two servings per meal and per snack.  This also translates in to 2 ounces of protein at breakfast, 6 ounces at lunch, 2 ounces in the afternoon snack, 6 ounces at supper, and 2 ounces in the evening snack.  We have eliminated the morning snack.  The patient will now track the grams of fat in her meats as well as added fats.  Her goal for total fats over the course of the day is no more than 42 grams of fat per day.  This was a half hour consultation.  We will plan to see the patient back in one month for support.

SUBJECTIVE:,  His brother, although he is a vegetarian, has elevated cholesterol and he is on medication to lower it.  The patient started improving his diet when he received the letter explaining his lipids are elevated.  He is consuming less cappuccino, quiche, crescents, candy from vending machines, etc.  He has started packing his lunch three to four times per week instead of eating out so much.  He is exercising six to seven days per week by swimming, biking, running, lifting weights one and a half to two and a half hours each time.  He is in training for a triathlon.  He says he is already losing weight due to his efforts.,OBJECTIVE:,  Height:  6 foot 2 inches.  Weight:  204 pounds on 03/07/05.  Ideal body weight:  190 pounds, plus or minus ten percent.  He is 107 percent standard of midpoint ideal body weight.  BMI:  26.189.  A 48-year-old male.  Lab on 03/15/05:  Cholesterol:  251.  LDL:  166.  VLDL:  17.  HDL:  68.  Triglycerides:  87.  I explained to the patient the dietary guidelines to help improve his lipids.  I recommend a 26 to 51 to 77 fat grams per day for a 10 to 20 to 30 percent fat level of 2,300 calories since he is interested in losing weight.  I went over the printed information sheet on lowering your cholesterol and that was given to him along with a booklet on the same topic to read.  I encouraged him to continue as he is doing.,ASSESSMENT:,  Basal energy expenditure 1960 x 1.44 activity factor is approximately 2,800 calories.  His 24-hour recall shows he is making many positive changes already to lower his fat and cholesterol intake.  He needs to continue as he is doing.  He verbalized understanding and seemed receptive.,PLAN:,  The patient plans to recheck his lipids through Dr. XYZ  I gave him my phone number and he is to call me if he has any further questions regarding his diet.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 79-year-old African-American female with a self reported height of 5 foot 3 inches and weight of 197 pounds.  She was diagnosed with type 2 diabetes in 1983.  She is not allergic to any medicines.,DIABETES MEDICATIONS:,  Her diabetes medications include Humulin insulin 70/30, 44 units at breakfast and 22 units at supper.  Also metformin 500 mg at supper.,OTHER MEDICATIONS: , Other medications include verapamil, Benicar, Toprol, clonidine, and hydrochlorothiazide.,ASSESSMENT:,  The patient and her daughter completed both days of diabetes education in a group setting.  Blood glucose records and food diaries are reviewed by the diabetes educator and the dietician.  Fasting blood sugars are 127, 80, and 80.  Two-hour postprandial breakfast reading was 105, two-hour postprandial lunch reading was 88, and two-hour postprandial dinner reading was 73 and 63.  Her diet was excellent.,Seven hours of counseling about diabetes mellitus was provided on this date.,Blood glucose values obtained at 10 a.m. were 84 and at 2.30 p.m. were 109.  Assessment of her knowledge is completed at the end of the counseling session.  She demonstrated increased knowledge in all areas and had no further questions.  She also completed an evaluation of the class.,The patient's feet were examined during the education session.  She had flat feet bilaterally.  Skin color was pink, temperature warm.  Pedal pulses 2+.  Her right second and third toes lay on each other.  Also, the same on her left foot.  However, there was no skin breakdown.  She had large bunions, medial aspect of the ball of both feet.  She had positive sensitivity to most areas of her feet, however, she had negative sensitivity to the medial and lateral aspect of the balls of her left foot.,During the education session, she set behavioral goals for self care.  First goal is to eat three meals a day and eat three snacks daily to improve her blood glucose levels.  Second goal is to eat a well balanced meal at 1200 calories in order to lose one-half pound of weight per week and improve her blood glucose control.  Third goal is to exercise by walking for 15 to 30 minutes a day, three to five days a week to increase her blood glucose control.  Her success in achieving these goals will be followed in three months by a letter from the diabetes education class.,RECOMMENDATIONS:,  Since she is doing so well with her diet changes, her blood sugars have been within normal limits and sometimes on the low side, especially considering the fact that she has low blood sugar unawareness.  She is to followup with Dr. XYZ for possible reduction in her insulin doses.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is brought in by an assistant with some of his food diary sheets.  They wonder if the patient needs to lose anymore weight.,OBJECTIVE:,  The patient's weight today is 186-1/2 pounds, which is down 1-1/2 pounds in the past month.  He has lost a total of 34-1/2 pounds.  I praised this.  I went over his food diary and praised all of his positive food choices reported, especially his use of sugar-free Kool-Aid, sugar-free pudding, and diet pop.  I encouraged him to continue all of that, as well as his regular physical activity.,ASSESSMENT:,  The patient is losing weight at an acceptable rate.  He needs to continue keeping a food diary and his regular physical activity.,PLAN:,  The patient plans to see Dr. XYZ at the end of May 2005.  I recommended that they ask Dr. XYZ what weight he would like for the patient to be at.  Follow up will be with me June 13, 2005.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient's assistant brings in her food diary sheets.  The patient says she stays active by walking at the mall.,OBJECTIVE:,  Weight today is 201 pounds, which is down 3 pounds in the past month.  She has lost a total of 24 pounds.  I praised this and encouraged her to continue.  I went over her food diary.  I praised her three-meal pattern and all of her positive food choices, especially the use of sugar-free Kool-Aid, sugar-free Jell-O, sugar-free lemonade, diet pop, as well as the variety of foods she is using in her three-meal pattern.  I encouraged her to continue all of this.,ASSESSMENT:,  The patient has been successful with weight loss due to assistance from others in keeping a food diary, picking lower-calorie items, her three-meal pattern, getting a balanced diet, and all her physical activity.  She needs to continue all this.,PLAN:,  Followup is set for 06/13/05 to check the patient's weight, her food diary, and answer any questions.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a 62-year-old female who comes for dietary consultation for carbohydrate counting for type I diabetes.  The patient reports that she was hospitalized over the weekend for DKA.  She indicates that her blood sugar on Friday night was 187 at bedtime and that when she woke up in the morning her blood sugar was 477.  She gave herself, in smaller increments, a total of 70 extra units of her Humalog.  Ten of those units were injectable; the others were in the forms of pump.  Her blood sugar was over 600 when she went to the hospital later that day.  She is here at this consultation complaining of not feeling well still because she has a cold.  She realizes that this is likely because her immune system was so minimized in the hospital.,OBJECTIVE:,  Current insulin doses on her insulin pump are boluses set at 5 units at breakfast, 6 units at lunch and 11 units at supper.  Her basal rates have not been changed since her last visit with Charla Yassine and totaled 30.5 units per 24 hours.  A diet history was obtained.  I instructed the patient on carbohydrate counting at 1 unit of insulin for every 10 g carbohydrate ratio was recommended.  A correction dose of approximately 1 unit of insulin to bring the blood sugars down 30 mg/dl was also recommended.  The Lilly guide for meal planning was provided and reviewed.  Additional carbohydrate counting book was provided.,ASSESSMENT:,  The patient was taught an insulin-to-carbohydrate ratio of 1 unit to 10 g of carbohydrates as recommended at the previous visit two years ago, which she does not recall.  It is based on the 500 rule which suggests this ratio.  We did identify carbohydrate sources in the food supply, recognizing 15-g equivalents.  We also identified the need to dose her insulin at the time that she is eating her carbohydrate sources.  She does seem to have a pattern of fixing blood sugars later in the day after they are elevated.  We discussed the other option of trying to eat a consistent amount of carbohydrates at meals from day to day and taking a consistent amount of insulin at those meals.  With this in mind, she was recommended to follow with three servings or 45 g of carbohydrate at breakfast, three servings or 45 g of carbohydrate at lunch and four servings or 60 g of carbohydrate at dinner.  Joanne Araiza joined our consultation briefly to discuss whether her pump was working appropriately.  The patient was given an 800 number for the pump to contact should there be any question about its failure to deliver insulin appropriately.,PLAN:,  Recommend the patient use 1 unit of insulin for every 10-g carbohydrate load consumed.  Recommend the patient either use this as a carbohydrate counting tool or work harder at keeping carbohydrate content consistent at meals from day to day.  This was a one-hour consultation.  Provided my name and number should additional needs arise.

SUBJECTIVE:,  He is a 24-year-old male who said that he had gotten into some poison ivy this weekend while he was fishing.  He has had several cases of this in the past and he says that is usually takes quite awhile for him to get over it; he said that the last time he was here he got a steroid injection by Dr. Blackman; it looked like it was Depo-Medrol 80 mg.  He said that it worked fairly well, although it seemed to still take awhile to get rid of it.  He has been using over-the-counter Benadryl as well as cortisone cream on the areas of the rash and having a little bit of improvement, but this last weekend he must have gotten into some more poison ivy because he has got another outbreak along his chest, legs, arms and back.,OBJECTIVE:,Vitals:  Temperature is 99.2.  His weight is 207 pounds.,Skin:  Examination reveals a raised, maculopapular rash in kind of a linear pattern over his arms, legs and chest area which are consistent with a poison ivy or a poison oak.,ASSESSMENT AND ,PLAN:,  Poison ivy.  Plan would be Solu-Medrol 125 mg IM X 1.  Continue over-the-counter Benadryl or Rx allergy medicine that he was given the last time he was here, which is a one-a-day allergy medicine; he can not exactly remember what it is, which would also be fine rather than the over-the-counter Benadryl if he would like to use that instead.

SUBJECTIVE:,  He is a 29-year-old white male who is a patient of Dr. XYZ and he comes in today complaining that he was stung by a Yellow Jacket Wasp yesterday and now has a lot of swelling in his right hand and right arm.  He says that he has been stung by wasps before and had similar reactions.  He just said that he wanted to catch it early before he has too bad of a severe reaction like he has had in the past.  He has had a lot of swelling, but no anaphylaxis-type reactions in the past; no shortness of breath or difficultly with his throat feeling like it is going to close up or anything like that in the past; no racing heart beat or anxiety feeling, just a lot of localized swelling where the sting occurs.,OBJECTIVE:,Vitals:  His temperature is 98.4.  Respiratory rate is 18.  Weight is 250 pounds.,Extremities:  Examination of his right hand and forearm reveals that he has an apparent sting just around his wrist region on his right hand on the medial side as well as significant swelling in his hand and his right forearm; extending up to the elbow.  He says that it is really not painful or anything like that.  It is really not all that red and no signs of infection at this time.,ASSESSMENT:,  Wasp sting to the right wrist area.,PLAN:,1.  Solu-Medrol 125 mg IM X 1.,2.  Over-the-counter Benadryl, ice and elevation of that extremity.,3.  Follow up with Dr. XYZ if any further evaluation is needed.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This 49-year-old white male, established patient in dermatology, last seen in the office on 08/02/2002, comes in today for initial evaluation of a hyperesthesia on his right abdomen, then on his left abdomen, then on his left medial thigh.  It cleared for awhile.  This has been an intermittent problem.  Now it is back again on his right lower abdomen.  At first, it was thought that he may have early zoster.  This started six weeks before the holidays and is still going on, more so in the past eight days on his abdomen and right hip area.  He has had no treatment on this; there are no skin changes at all.  The patient bathes everyday but tries to use little soap.  The patient is married.  He works as an airplane mechanic.,FAMILY, SOCIAL, AND ALLERGY HISTORY:,  The patient has sinus and CVA.  He is a nonsmoker.  No known drug allergies.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Lipitor, aspirin, folic acid.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,  The patient is well developed, appears stated age.  Overall health is good.  He does have psoriasis with some psoriatic arthritis, and his skin looks normal today.  On his trunk, he does have the hyperesthesia.  As you touch him, he winces.,IMPRESSION:,  Hyperesthesia, question etiology.,TREATMENT:,1.  Discussed condition and treatment with the patient.,2.  Discontinue hot soapy water to these areas.,3.  Increase moisturizing cream and lotion.,4.  I referred him to Dr. ABC or Dr. XYZ for neurology evaluation.  We did not see anything on skin today.  Return p.r.n. flare.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a 29-year-old Vietnamese female, established patient of dermatology, last seen in our office on 07/13/04.  She comes in today as a referral from ABC, D.O. for a reevaluation of her hand eczema.  I have treated her with Aristocort cream, Cetaphil cream, increased moisturizing cream and lotion, and wash her hands in Cetaphil cleansing lotion.  She comes in today for reevaluation because she is flaring.  Her hands are very dry, they are cracked, she has been washing with soap.  She states that the Cetaphil cleansing lotion apparently is causing some burning and pain because of the fissures in her skin.  She has been wearing some gloves also apparently.  The patient is single.  She is unemployed.,FAMILY, SOCIAL, AND ALLERGY HISTORY: , The patient has asthma, sinus, hives, and history of psoriasis.  No known drug allergies.,MEDICATIONS: , The patient is a nonsmoker.  No bad sunburns or blood pressure problems in the past.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Claritin and Zyrtec p.r.n.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,  The patient has very dry, cracked hands bilaterally.,IMPRESSION:,  Hand dermatitis.,TREATMENT:,1.  Discussed further treatment with the patient and her interpreter.,2.  Apply Aristocort ointment 0.1% and equal part of Polysporin ointment t.i.d. and p.r.n. itch.,3.  Discontinue hot soapy water and wash her hands with Cetaphil cleansing lotion.,4.  Keflex 500 mg b.i.d. times two weeks with one refill.  Return in one month if not better; otherwise, on a p.r.n. basis and send Dr. XYZ a letter on this office visit.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This 1+ year, black female, new patient in dermatology, sent in for consult from ABC Practice for initial evaluation of a lifelong history of atopic eczema.  The patient’s mom is from Tanzania.  The patient has been treated with Elidel cream b.i.d. for six months but apparently this has stopped working now and it seems to make her more dry and plus she has been using some Johnson's Baby Oil on her.  The patient is a well-developed baby.  Appears stated age.  Overall health is good.,FAMILY, SOCIAL, AND ALLERGY HISTORY: , The patient has eczema and a positive atopic family history.  No psoriasis.  No known drug allergies.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  None.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:, The patient has eczematous changes today on her face, trunk, and extremities.,IMPRESSION:,  Atopic eczema.,TREATMENT:,1.  Discussed condition and treatment with Mom.,2.  Continue bathing twice a week.,3.  Discontinue hot soapy water.,4.  Discontinue Elidel for now.,5.  Add Aristocort cream 0.25%, Polysporin ointment, Aquaphor b.i.d. and p.r.n. itch.  We will see her in one month if not better otherwise on a p.r.n. basis.  Send a letter to ABC Practice program.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 49-year-old white female, established patient to Dermatology, last seen in the office on 08/10/2004.  She comes in today for reevaluation of her acne plus she has had what she calls a rash for the past two months now on her chest, stomach, neck, and back.  On examination, this is a flaring of her acne with small folliculitis lesions.  The patient has been taking amoxicillin 500 mg b.i.d. and using Tazorac cream 0.1, and her face is doing well, but she has been out of her medicine now for three days also.  She has also been getting photofacials at Healing Waters and was wondering about what we could offer as far as cosmetic procedures and skin care products, etc.  The patient is married.  She is a secretary.,FAMILY, SOCIAL, AND ALLERGY HISTORY:,  She has hay fever, eczema, sinus, and hives.  She has no melanoma or skin cancers or psoriasis.  Her mother had oral cancer.  The patient is a nonsmoker.  No blood tests.  Had some sunburn in the past.  She is on benzoyl peroxide and Daypro.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Lexapro, Effexor, Ditropan, aspirin, vitamins.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,  The patient is well developed, appears stated age.  Overall health is good.  She has a couple of acne lesions, one on her face and neck but there are a lot of small folliculitis-like lesions on her abdomen, chest, and back.,IMPRESSION:,  Acne with folliculitis.,TREATMENT:,1.  Discussed condition and treatment with the patient.,2.  Continue the amoxicillin 500 mg two at bedtime.,3.  Add Septra DS every morning with extra water.,4.  Continue the Tazorac cream 0.1; it is okay to use on back and chest also.,5.  Referred to ABC clinic for an aesthetic consult.  Return in two months for followup evaluation of her acne.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient presents with Mom for a first visit to our office for a well-child check with concern of some spitting up quite a bit.  Mom wants to make sure that this is normal.  The patient is nursing well every two to three hours.  She does have some spitting up on occasion.  It has happened two or three times with some curdled appearance x 1.  No projectile in nature, nonbilious.  Normal voiding and stooling pattern.  Growth and Development:  Denver II normal, passing all developmental milestones per age.  See Denver II form in the chart.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Mom reports uncomplicated pregnancy with prenatal care provided by Dr. XYZ in Wichita, Kansas.  Delivery after induction secondary to postdate at St. Joseph Hospital.  Infant delivered by SVD with birth weight of 6 pounds 13 ounce.  Length of 19 inches.  Did well after delivery and dismissed to home with Mom.  Received hepatitis B #1 prior to dismissal.  No other hospitalizations.  No surgeries.  No known medical allergies.  No medications.  Mom has tried Mylicon drops on occasion.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Significant for cardiovascular disease, hypertension, diabetes mellitus and thyroid problems in maternal and paternal grandparents.  Healthy Mother, Father.  There is also history of breast, colon and ovarian cancer on the maternal side of the family, her grandmother who is present at visit today.  There is history of asthma in the patient's father.,SOCIAL HISTORY:,  The patient lives at home with 23-year-old mother, who is a homemaker and 24-year-old father, John, who is a supervisor at Excel.  The family lives in Bentley, Kansas.  No smoking in the home.  Family does have one pet cat.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  As per HPI, otherwise, negative.,OBJECTIVE:,  Weight:  7 pounds 12 ounces.  Height:  21 inches.  Head circumference:  35 cm.  Temperature:  97.2 degrees.,General:  Well-developed, well-nourished, cooperative, alert, interactive 2-week-old white female in no acute distress.,HEENT:  Atraumatic, normocephalic.  Anterior fontanel is soft and flat.  Pupils are equal, round and reactive.  Sclerae clear.  Red reflexes present bilaterally.  TMs are clear bilaterally.  Oropharynx:  Mucous membranes are moist and pink.,Neck:  Supple, no lymphadenopathy.,Chest:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.  No wheeze or crackles.  Good air exchange.,Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm.  No murmur.  Good pulses bilaterally.,Abdomen:  Soft, nontender, nondistended.  Positive bowel sounds.  No mass nor organomegaly.,Genitourinary:  Tanner I female genitalia.  Femoral pulses are equal bilaterally.  No rash.,Extremities:  Full range of motion.  No cyanosis, clubbing or edema.  Negative Ortolani or Barlow maneuver.,Back:  Straight.  No scoliosis.,Integument:  Warm, dry and pink without lesions.,Neurologic:  Alert.  Good muscle tone and strength.,ASSESSMENT/PLAN:,1.  Well 2-week-old white female.,2.  Anticipatory guidelines for growth, diet, development, safety issues as well as immunizations and visitation schedule.  Gave 2-week well-child check handout and American Academy of Pediatrics book Birth to 5 years to Mom and family.,3.  Call the office or on-call physician if the patient has fever, feeding problems or breathing problems.  Otherwise plan to recheck at 1-month of age.

SUBJECTIVE:,  Patient presents with Mom and Dad for her 5-year 3-month well-child check.  Family has not concerns stating patient has been doing well overall since last visit.  Taking in a well-balanced diet consisting of milk and dairy products, fruits, vegetables, proteins and grains with minimal junk food and snack food.  No behavioral concerns.  Gets along well with peers as well as adults.  Is excited to start kindergarten this upcoming school year.  Does attend daycare.  Normal voiding and stooling pattern.  No concerns with hearing or vision.  Sees the dentist regularly.  Growth and development:  Denver II normal passing all developmental milestones per age in areas of fine motor, gross motor, personal and social interaction and speech and language development.  See Denver II form in the chart.,ALLERGIES:,  None.,MEDICATIONS: , None.,FAMILY SOCIAL HISTORY:,  Unchanged since last checkup.  Lives at home with mother, father and sibling.  No smoking in the home.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  As per HPI; otherwise negative.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital Signs:  Weight 43 pounds.  Height 42-1/4 inches.  Temperature 97.7.  Blood pressure 90/64.,General:  Well-developed, well-nourished, cooperative, alert and interactive 5-year -3month-old white female in no acute distress.,HEENT:  Atraumatic, normocephalic.  Pupils equal, round and reactive.  Sclerae clear.  Red reflex present bilaterally.  Extraocular muscles intact.  TMs clear bilaterally.  Oropharynx:  Mucous membranes moist and pink.  Good dentition.,Neck:  Supple, no lymphadenopathy.,Chest:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.  No wheeze or crackles.  Good air exchange.,Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm.  No murmur.  Good pulses bilaterally.,Abdomen:  Soft, nontender.  Nondistended.  Positive bowel sounds.  No masses or organomegaly.,GU:  Tanner I female genitalia.  Femoral pulses equal bilaterally.  No rash.,Extremities:  Full range of motion.  No cyanosis, clubbing or edema.,Back:  Straight.  No scoliosis.,Integument:  Warm, dry and pink without lesions.,Neurological:  Alert.  Good muscle tone and strength.  Cranial nerves II-XII grossly intact.  DTRs 2+/4+ bilaterally.,ASSESSMENT/PLAN:,1. Well 5-year 3-month-old white female.,2. Anticipatory guidance for growth and diet development and safety issues as well as immunizations.  Will receive MMR, DTaP and IPV today.  Discussed risks and benefits as well as possible side effects and symptomatic treatment.  Gave 5-year well-child check handout to mom.  Completed school pre-participation physical.  Copy in the chart.  Completed vision and hearing screening.  Reviewed results with family.,3. Follow up in one year for next well-child check or as needed for acute care.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient presents with Mom and Dad for her 1-year well child check.  The family has no concerns stating the patient has been doing well overall since the last visit taking in a well-balanced diet consisting of formula transitioning to whole milk, fruits, vegetables, proteins and grains.  Normal voiding and stooling pattern.  No concerns with hearing or vision.  Growth and development:  Denver II normal passing all developmental milestones per age in areas of fine motor, gross motor, personal and social interaction as well as speech and language development.  See Denver II form in the chart.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Allergies:  None.  Medications:  Tylenol this morning in preparation for vaccines and a multivitamin daily.,FAMILY SOCIAL HISTORY:,  Unchanged since last checkup.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  As per HPI; otherwise negative.,OBJECTIVE:,  Weight 24 pounds 1 ounce.  Height 30 inches.  Head circumference 46.5 cm.  Temperature afebrile.,General:  A well-developed, well-nourished, cooperative, alert and interactive 1-year-old white female smiling, happy and drooling.,HEENT:  Atraumatic, normocephalic.  Anterior fontanel is closed.  Pupils equally round and reactive.  Sclerae are clear.  Red reflex present bilaterally.  Extraocular muscles intact.  TMs are clear bilaterally.  Oropharynx:  Mucous membranes are moist and pink.  Good dentition.  Drooling and chewing with teething behavior today.  Neck is supple.  No lymphadenopathy.,Chest:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.  No wheeze.  No crackles.  Good air exchange.,Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm.  No murmur.  Good pulses bilaterally.,Abdomen:  Soft, nontender.  Nondistended.  Positive bowel sounds.  No mass.  No organomegaly.,Genitourinary:  Tanner I female genitalia.  Femoral pulses equal bilaterally.  No rash.,Extremities:  Full range of motion.  No cyanosis, clubbing or edema.  Negative Ortolani and Barlow maneuver.,Back:  Straight.  No scoliosis.,Integument:  Warm, dry and pink without lesions.,Neurological:  Alert.  Good muscle tone and strength.  Cranial nerves II through XII are grossly intact.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,1.  Well 1-year-old white female.,2.  Anticipatory guidance.  Reviewed growth, diet development and safety issues as well as immunizations.  Will receive Pediarix and HIB today.  Discussed risks and benefits as well as possible side effects and symptomatic treatment.  Will also obtain a screening CBC and lead level today via fingerstick and call the family with results as they become available.  Gave 1-year well child checkup handout to Mom and Dad.,3.  Follow up for the 15-month well child check or as needed for acute care.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a 1-month-old who comes in for a healthy checkup.  Mom says things are gone very well.  He is kind of acting like he has got a little bit of sore throat but no fevers.  He is still eating well.  He is up to 4 ounces every feeding.  He has not been spitting up.  Voiding and stooling well.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Reviewed, very healthy.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  None.,ALLERGIES TO MEDICINES:,  None.,DIETARY: , His formula fed on Enfamil Lipil.  Voiding and stooling well.  Growth chart reviewed with Mom.,DEVELOPMENTAL:,  He is starting to track with his eyes.  He is smiling a little bit, moving hands and feet symmetrically.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,  In general well-developed, well-nourished male in no acute distress.,DERMATOLOGIC:  Without rash or lesion.,HEENT:  Head normocephalic and atraumatic.  Anterior fontanel soft and flat.  Eyes:  Pupils equal, round and reactive to light.  Extraocular movements intact.  Red reflexes present bilaterally.  Does appear to have conjugate gaze.  Ears:  Tympanic membranes are pink to gray, translucent, neutral position, normal light reflex and mobility.  Nares are patent, pink mucosa, moist.  Oropharynx clear with pink mucosa, normal moisture.,NECK:  Supple without masses.,CHEST:  Clear to auscultation and percussion with easy respirations and no accessory muscle use.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmurs, rubs, heaves or gallops.,ABDOMEN:  Soft, nontender, nondistended without hepatosplenomegaly.,GU EXAM:  Normal Tanner I male.  Testes descended bilaterally.  No hernias noted.,EXTREMITIES:  Pink and warm.  Moving all extremities well.  No subluxation of the hips and leg creases appear symmetric.,NEUROLOGIC:  Alert, otherwise nonfocal.  2+ deep tendon reflexes at the knees.  Fixes and follows appropriately to both voice and face.,ASSESSMENT:,  Well child check.,PLAN:,1.  Diet, growth and safety discussed.,2.  Immunizations discussed and updated with hepatitis B.,3.  Return to clinic at two months of age.  Call if problems.

SUBJECTIVE:,  Patient presents with Mom for first visit to the office for two week well-child check.  Mom has no concerns stating that patient has been doing well overall since dismissal from the hospital.  Nursing every two to three hours with normal voiding and stooling pattern.  She does have a little bit of some gas and Mom has been using Mylicon drops which are helpful.  She is burping well, hiccuping, sneezing and burping appropriately.  Growth and development:  Denver II normal passing all developmental milestones per age in areas of fine motor, gross motor, personal and social interaction and speech and language development.  See Denver II form in the chart.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Mom reports uncomplicated pregnancy and delivery with prenatal care provided by Dr. Hoing.  Delivery at Newton Medical Center at 39 weeks, 5 days gestation.  Birth weight was 3160 g.  Length 49.5 cm.  Head circumference 33 cm.  Infant was delivered to 22-year-old A-positive mom who is G1 P0, now P1.  Infant did well after delivery and was dismissed to home with Mom the following day.  No other hospitalizations.  No surgeries.,ALLERGIES: , None.,MEDICATIONS:,  Gas drops p.r.n.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Significant for cardiovascular problems and hypertension as well as diabetes mellitus on the maternal side of the family.  History of cancer and asthma on the paternal side of the family.  Mom unsure of what type of cancer.,SOCIAL HISTORY:,  Patient lives at home with 22-year-old mother Aubrey Mizel and her parents Bud and Sue Mizel in Newton, Kansas.  Father of the baby, Shivanka Silva age 30, is a full-time student at WSU in Wichita, Kansas and does help with care of the newborn.  There is no smoking in the home.  Family does have one pet dog in home.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  As per HPI; otherwise negative.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital Signs:  Weight 7 pounds, 1-1/5 ounces.  Height 21 inches.  Head circumference 35.8 cm.  Temperature 97.7.,General:  Well-developed, well-nourished, cooperative, alert and interactive 2-week-old female in no acute distress.,HEENT:  Atraumatic, normocephalic.  Anterior fontanel soft and flat.  Pupils equal, round and reactive.  Sclerae clear.  Red reflex present bilaterally.  TMs clear bilaterally.  Oropharynx:  Mucous membranes moist and pink.,Neck:  Supple, no lymphadenopathy.,Chest:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.  No wheeze or crackles.  Good air exchange.,Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm.  No murmur.  Good pulses bilaterally.,Abdomen:  Soft, nontender.  Nondistended.  Positive bowel sounds.  No masses or organomegaly.  Healing umbilicus.,GU:  Tanner I female genitalia.  Femoral pulses equal bilaterally.  No rash.,Extremities:  Full range of motion.  No cyanosis, clubbing or edema.  Negative Ortolani and Barlow maneuver.,Back:  Straight.  No scoliosis.  Some increased pigment over the sacrum.,Integument:  Warm, dry and pink without lesions.,Neurological:  Alert.  Good muscle tone and strength.,ASSESSMENT/PLAN:,1. Well 2-week-old mixed race Caucasian and Middle Eastern descent female.,2. Anticipatory guidance for growth and diet development and safety issues as well as immunizations and visitation schedule.  Gave two week well-child check handout to Mom.  Plan follow up for the one month well-child check or as needed for acute care.  Mom will call for feeding problems, breathing problems or fever.  Otherwise, plan to see at one month.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This 9-month-old Hispanic male comes in today for a 9-month well-child check.  They are visiting from Texas until the end of April 2004.  Mom says he has been doing well since last seen.  He is up-to-date on his immunizations per her report.  She notes that he has developed some bumps on his chest that have been there for about a week.  Two weeks ago he was diagnosed with left otitis media and was treated with antibiotics.  Mom says he has been doing fine since then.  She has no concerns about him.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Significant for term vaginal delivery without complications.,MEDICATIONS: , None.,ALLERGIES:,  None.,SOCIAL HISTORY:,  Lives with parents.  There is no smoking in the household.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Developmentally is appropriate.  No fevers.  No other rashes.  No cough or congestion.  No vomiting or diarrhea.  Eating normally.,OBJECTIVE:,  His weight is 16 pounds 9 ounces.  Height is 26-1/4 inches.  Head circumference is 44.75 cm.  Pulse is 124.  Respirations are 26.  Temperature is 98.1 degrees.  Generally, this is a well-developed, well-nourished, 9-month-old male, who is active, alert, and playful in no acute distress.,HEENT:  Normocephalic, atraumatic.  Anterior fontanel is soft and flat.  Tympanic membranes are clear bilaterally.  Conjunctivae are clear.  Pupils equal, round and reactive to light.  Nares without turbinate edema.  Oropharynx is nonerythematous.,NECK:  Supple, without lymphadenopathy, thyromegaly, carotid bruit, or JVD.,CHEST:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  Regular rate and rhythm, without murmur.,ABDOMEN:  Soft, nontender, nondistended, normoactive bowel sounds.  No masses or organomegaly to palpation.,GU:  Normal male external genitalia.  Uncircumcised penis.  Bilaterally descended testes.  Femoral pulses 2/4.,EXTREMITIES:  Moves all four extremities equally.  Minimal tibial torsion.,SKIN:  Without abnormalities other than five small molluscum contagiosum with umbilical herniation noted on chest.,ASSESSMENT/PLAN:,1.  Well-child check.  Is doing well.  Will recommend a followup well-child check at 1 year of age and immunizations at that time.  Discussed safety issues, including poisons, choking hazards, pet safety, appropriate nutrition with Mom.  She is given a parenting guide handout.,2.  Molluscum contagiosum.  Described the viral etiology of these.  Told her they are self limited, and we will continue to monitor at this time.,3.  Left otitis media, resolved.  Continue to monitor.  We will plan on following up in three months if they are still in the area, or p.r.n.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a 12-year-old male who comes in for healthy checkups and sports physical.  No major concerns today.  He is little bit congested at times.  He has been told he is allergic to grasses.  They have done over-the-counter Claritin and that seems to help but he is always sniffling mother reports.  He has also got some dryness on his face as far as the skin and was wondering what cream he could put on.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Otherwise, reviewed.  Very healthy.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Claritin p.r.n.,ALLERGIES TO MEDICINES:,  None.,FAMILY SOCIAL HISTORY:,  Everyone else is healthy at home currently.,DIETARY:,  He is on whole milk and does a variety of foods.  Growth chart is reviewed with mother.  Voids and stools well.,DEVELOPMENTAL:,  He is in seventh grade and going out for cross-country and track.  He is supposed to be wearing glasses, is not today.  We did not test his vision because he recently saw the eye doctor though we did discuss the need for him to wear glasses with mother.  His hearing was normal today and no concerns with speech.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,General:  A well-developed, well-nourished male in no acute distress.,Dermatologic:  Without rash or lesion.,HEENT:  Head normocephalic and atraumatic.  Eyes:  Pupils equal, round and reactive to light.  Extraocular movements intact.  Red reflexes are present bilaterally.  Optic discs are sharp with normal vasculature.  Ears:  Tympanic membranes are gray, translucent with normal light reflex.  Nares are very congested.  Turbinates swollen and boggy.,Neck:  Supple without masses.,Chest:  Clear to auscultation and percussion, easy respirations.  No accessory muscle use.,Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmurs, rubs, heaves or gallops.,Back:  Symmetric with no scoliosis or kyphosis noted.  Normal flexibility.  Femoral pulses 2+ and symmetric.,Abdomen:  Soft, nontender, nondistended without hepatosplenomegaly.,GU Exam:  Normal Tanner III male.  Testes descended bilaterally.  No abnormal rash, discharge, or scars.,Extremities:  Pink and warm.  Moves all extremities well with normal function and strength in the arms and legs.  Normal balance, station, and gait.  Normal speech.,Neurologic:  Nonfocal with normal speech, station, gait, and balance.,ASSESSMENT:,  Healthy Tanner III male, developing normally.,PLAN:,1.  Diet, growth, safety, drugs, violence, and social competence all discussed.,2.  Immunizations reviewed.,3.  We will place him on Clarinex 5 mg once daily, some Rhinocort-AQ nasal spray one spray each nostril once daily and otherwise discussed the importance of him wearing glasses.,4.  Return to clinic p.r.n. and at two to three years for a physical, otherwise return p.r.n.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This patient was seen in clinic for a school physical.,NUTRITIONAL HISTORY:,  She eats well, takes meats, vegetables, and fruits, but her calcium intake is limited.  She does not drink a whole lot of pop.  Her stools are normal.  Brushes her teeth, sees a dentist.,Developmental History:  Hearing and vision is okay.  She did well in school last year.  She will be going to move to Texas, will be going to Bowie High School.  She will be involved in cheerleading, track, volleyball, and basketball.  She will be also playing the clarinet and will be a freshman in that school.  Her menarche was 06/30/2004.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  She is still on medications for asthma.  She has a problem with her eye lately, this has been bothering her, and she also has had a rash in the left leg.  She had been pulling weeds on 06/25/2004 and then developed a rash on 06/27/2004.,Review of her immunizations, her last tetanus shot was 06/17/2003.,MEDICATIONS:  ,Advair 100/50 b.i.d., Allegra 60 mg b.i.d., Flonase q.d., Xopenex, Intal, and albuterol p.r.n.,ALLERGIES: , No known drug allergies.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital Signs:  Weight:  112 pounds about 40th percentile.  Height:  63-1/4 inches, also the 40th percentile.  Her body mass index was 19.7, 40th percentile.  Temperature:  97.7 tympanic.  Pulse:  80.  Blood pressure:  96/64.,HEENT:  Normocephalic.  Fundi benign.  Pupils equal and reactive to light and accommodation.  No strabismus.  Her vision was 20/20 in both eyes and each with contacts.  Hearing:  She passed that test.  Her TMs are bilaterally clear and nonerythematous.  Throat was clear.  Good mucous membrane moisture and good dentition.,Neck:  Supple.  Thyroid normal sized.  No increased lymphadenopathy in the submandibular nodes and no axillary nodes.,Abdomen:  No hepatosplenomegaly.,Respiratory:  Clear.  No wheezes.  No crackles.  No tachypnea.  No retractions.,Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm.  S1 and S2 normal.  No murmur.,Abdomen:  Soft.  No organomegaly and no masses.,GU:  Normal female genitalia.  Tanner stage 3, breast development and pubic hair development.  Examination of the breasts was negative for any masses or abnormalities or discharge from her areola.,Extremities:  She has good range of motion of upper and lower extremities.  Deep tendon reflexes were 2+/4+ bilaterally and equal.  Romberg negative.,Back:  No scoliosis.  She had good circumduction at shoulder joint and her duck walk was normal.,SKIN:  She did have some rash on the anterior left thigh region and also some on the right lower leg that had Kebner phenomenon and maculopapular vesicular eruption.  No honey crusting was noted on the skin.  She also had some mild rash on the anterior abdominal area near the panty line similar to that rash.  It was raised and blanch with pressure, it was slightly erythematous.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,1.  Sports physical.,2.  The patient received her first hepatitis A vaccine.  She will get a booster in 6 to 12 months.  Prescription for Atarax 10 mg tablets one to two tablets p.o. q.4-6h. p.r.n. and a prescription for Elocon ointment to be applied topically, except for the face, once a day with a refill.  She will be following up with an allergist as soon as she gets to Texas and needs to find a primary care physician.  We talked about anticipatory guidance including breast exam, which we have reviewed with her today, seatbelt use, and sunscreen.  We talked about avoidance of drugs and alcohol and sexual activity.  Continue on her present medications and if her rash is not improved and goes to the neck or the face, she will need to be on PO steroid medication, but presently that was held and moved to treatment with Atarax and Elocon.  Also talked about cleaning her clothes and bedding in case she has any poison ivy oil that is harboring on any clothing.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This 45-year-old gravida 3, para 2, SAB 1 white female presents for exam and Pap.  Last Pap was a year ago and normal.  LMP was 08/29/2004.  Her cycles are usually regular, although that one came about a week early.  Her husband has had a vasectomy.  Overall, she is feeling well.,Health history form was reviewed.  There has been no change in her personal history.  She notes that a brother who was treated 12 years ago for a brain tumor has had a recurrence and had surgery again.  Social history is unchanged.,HEALTH HABITS: , She states that for a while she was really exercising regularly and eating lots of fruits and vegetables.  Right now, she is not doing nearly as well.  She has perhaps two dairy servings daily, trying to cut down.  She is not exercising at all and fruit and vegetable intake varies.  She is a nonsmoker.  Last cholesterol was in 2003 and was normal.  She had a mammogram which was normal recently.  She is current on her tetanus update.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,HEENT:  She feels as though she may have some allergies at night.  Most of her symptoms occur then, not during the day.  She will wake up with some congestion, sneezing, and then rhinorrhea.  Currently, she uses Tylenol Sinus.  Today, her symptoms are much better.  We did have rain this morning.,Respiratory and CV:  Negative.,GI:  She tends to have a little gas which is worse when she is eating more fruits and vegetables.  She had been somewhat constipated but that is better.,GU:  Negative.,Dermatologic:  She noticed an area of irritation on her right third finger on the ulnar side at the PIP joint.  It was very sensitive to water.  It seems to be slowly improving.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital Signs:  Her weight was 154 pounds, which is down 2 pounds.  Blood pressure 104/66.,General:  She is a well-developed, well-nourished, pleasant white female in no distress.,Neck:  Supple without adenopathy.  No thyromegaly or nodules palpable.,Lungs:  Clear to A&P.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmurs.,Breasts:  Symmetrical without masses, nipple, or skin retraction, discharge, or axillary adenopathy.,Abdomen:  Soft without organomegaly, masses, or tenderness.,Pelvic:  Reveals no external lesions.  The cervix is parous.  Pap smear done.  Uterus is anteverted and normal in size, shape, and consistency, and nontender.  No adnexal enlargement.,Extremities:  Examination of her right third finger shows an area of eczematous dermatitis approximately 2 cm in length on the ulnar side.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Normal GYN exam.,2.  Rhinitis, primarily in the mornings.  Vasomotor versus allergic.,3.  Eczematous dermatitis on right third finger.,PLAN:,1.  Discussed vasomotor rhinitis.  I suggested she try Ayr Nasal saline gel.  Another option would be a steroid spray and a sample of Nasonex is given to use two sprays in each nostril daily.,2.  Exam with Pap annually.,3.  Hydrocortisone cream to be applied to the area of eczematous dermatitis.,4.  Discussed nutrition and exercise.  I recommended at least five fruits and vegetables daily, no more than three dairy servings daily, and regular exercise at least three times a week.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 68-year-old white female who presents for complete physical, Pap and breast exam.  Her last Pap smear was 05/02/2002.  Her only complaint is that she has had some occasional episodes of some midchest pain that seems to go to her back, usually occurs at rest.  Has awakened her at night on occasion and only last about 15 to 20 minutes.  Denies nausea, vomiting, diaphoresis or shortness of breath with it.  This has not happened in almost two months.  She had a normal EKG one year ago.  Otherwise, has been doing quite well.  Did quite well with her foot surgery with Dr. Clayton.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Reactive airway disease; rheumatoid arthritis, recent surgery on her hands and feet; gravida 4, para 5, with one set of twins, all vaginal deliveries; iron deficiency anemia; osteoporosis; and hypothyroidism.,MEDICATIONS:,  Methotrexate 2.5 mg five weekly, Fosamax 70 mg weekly, folic acid daily, amitriptyline 15 mg daily, Synthroid 0.088 mg daily, calcium two in the morning and two at noon, multivitamin daily, baby aspirin daily and Colace one to three b.i.d.,ALLERGIES:,  None.,SOCIAL HISTORY:,  She is married.  Denies tobacco, alcohol and drug use.  She is not employed outside the home.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Unremarkable.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  HEENT, pulmonary, cardiovascular, GI, GU, musculoskeletal, neurologic, dermatologic, constitutional and psychiatric are all negative except for HPI.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital Signs:  Weight 146.  Blood pressure 100/64.  Pulse 80.  Respirations 16.  Temperature 97.7.,General:  She is a well-developed, well-nourished white female in no acute distress.,HEENT:  Grossly within normal limits.,Neck:  Supple.  No lymphadenopathy.  No thyromegaly.,Chest:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.,Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm.,Abdomen:  Positive bowel sounds, soft and nontender.  No hepatosplenomegaly.,Breasts:  No nipple discharge.  No lumps or masses palpated.  No dimpling of the skin.  No axillary lymph nodes palpated.  Self-breast exam discussed and encouraged.,Pelvic:  Normal female genitalia.  Atrophic vaginal mucosa.  No cervical lesions.  No cervical motion tenderness.  No adnexal tenderness or masses palpated.,Rectal:  Normal sphincter tone.  No stool present in the vault.  No rectal masses palpated.,Extremities:  No cyanosis, clubbing or edema.  She does have obvious rheumatoid arthritis of her hands.,Neurologic:  Grossly intact.,ASSESSMENT/PLAN:,1.  Chest pain.  The patient will evaluate when it happens next; what she has been eating, what activities she has been performing.  She had normal ECG one year ago.  In fact this does not sound cardiac in nature.  We will not do further cardiac workup at this time.  Did discuss with her she may be having some GI reflux type symptoms.,2.  Hypothyroidism.  We will recheck TSH to make sure she is on the right amount of medication at this time, making adjustments as needed.,3.  Rheumatoid arthritis.  Continue her methotrexate as prescribed by Dr. Mortensen, and follow up with Dr. XYZ as needed.,4.  Osteoporosis.  It is time for her to have a repeat DEXA at this time and that will be scheduled.,5.  Health care maintenance, Pap smear was obtained today.  The patient will be scheduled for mammogram.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient comes back to see me today.  She is a pleasant 73-year-old Caucasian female who had seen Dr. XYZ with low back pain, lumbar degenerative disc disease, lumbar spondylosis, facet and sacroiliac joint syndrome, lumbar spinal stenosis primarily bilateral recess, intermittent lower extremity radiculopathy, DJD of both knees, bilateral pes anserinus bursitis, and chronic pain syndrome.  Dr. XYZ had performed right and left facet and sacroiliac joint injections, subsequent right L3 to S1 medial branch blocks and radiofrequency ablation on the right from L3 to S1.  She was subsequently seen with some mid back pain and she had right T8-T9 and T9-T10 facet injections on 10/28/2004.  She was last seen on 04/08/2005 with recurrent pain in her low back on the right.  Dr. XYZ repeated her radiofrequency ablation on the right side from L3-S1 on 05/04/2005.,The patient comes back to see me today.  She states that the radiofrequency ablation has helped her significantly there, but she still has one spot in her low back that seems to be hurting her on the right, and seems to be pointing to her right sacroiliac joint.  She is also complaining of pain in both knees.  She says that 20 years ago she had a cortisone shot in her knees, which helped her significantly.  She has not had any x-rays for quite some time.  She is taking some Lortab 7.5 mg tablets, up to four daily, which help her with her pain symptoms.  She is also taking Celebrex through Dr. S’ office.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Essentially unchanged from my visit of 04/08/2005.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,General:  Reveals a pleasant Caucasian female.,Vital Signs:  Height is 5 feet 5 inches.  Weight is 183 pounds.  She is afebrile.,HEENT:  Benign.,Neck:  Shows functional range of movements with a negative Spurling's.,Musculoskeletal:  Examination shows degenerative joint disease of both knees, with medial and lateral joint line tenderness, with tenderness at both pes anserine bursa.  Straight leg raises are negative bilaterally.  Posterior tibials are palpable bilaterally.,Skin and Lymphatics:  Examination of the skin does not reveal any additional scars, rashes, cafe au lait spots or ulcers.  No significant lymphadenopathy noted.,Spine:  Examination shows decreased lumbar lordosis with tenderness that seems to be in her right sacroiliac joint.  She has no other major tenderness.  Spinal movements are limited but functional.,Neurological:  She is alert and oriented with appropriate mood and affect.  She has normal tone and coordination.  Reflexes are 2+ and symmetrical.  Sensation is intact to pinprick.,FUNCTIONAL EXAMINATION:,  Gait has a normal stance and swing phase with no antalgic component to it.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Low back syndrome with lumbar degenerative disc disease, lumbar spinal stenosis, and facet joint syndrome on the right L4-5 and L5-S1.,2.  Improved, spinal right L3-S1 radiofrequency ablation.,3.  Right sacroiliac joint sprain/strain, symptomatic.,4.  Left lumbar facet joint syndrome, stable.,6.  Right thoracic facet joint syndrome, stable.,7.  Lumbar spinal stenosis, primarily lateral recess with intermittent lower extremity radiculopathy, stable.,8.  Degenerative disc disease of both knees, symptomatic.,9.  Pes anserinus bursitis, bilaterally symptomatic.,10.  Chronic pain syndrome.,RECOMMENDATIONS:,  Dr. XYZ and I discussed with the patient her pathology.  She has some symptoms in her low back on the right side at the sacroiliac joint.  Dr. XYZ will plan having her come in and injecting her right sacroiliac joint under fluoroscopy.  She is also having pain in both knees.  We will plan on x-rays of both knees, AP and lateral, and plan on seeing her back on Monday or Friday for possible intraarticular and/or pes anserine bursa injections bilaterally.  I explained the rationale for each of these injections, possible complications and she wishes to proceed.  In the interim, she can continue on Lortab and Celebrex.  We will plan for the follow up following these interventions, sooner if needed.  She voiced understanding and agreement.  Physical exam findings, history of present illness, and recommendations were performed with and in agreement with Dr. Goel's findings.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient comes back to see me today.  She is a pleasant 77-year-old Caucasian female who had seen Dr. XYZ with right leg pain.  She has a history of prior laminectomy for spinal stenosis.  She has seen Dr. XYZ with low back pain and lumbar scoliosis post laminectomy syndrome, lumbar spinal stenosis, and clinical right L2 radiculopathy, which is symptomatic.  Dr. XYZ had performed two right L2-L3 transforaminal epidural injections, last one in March 2005.  She was subsequently seen and Dr. XYZ found most of her remaining symptoms are probably coming from her right hip.  An x-ray of the hip showed marked degenerative changes with significant progression of disease compared to 08/04/2004 study.  Dr. XYZ had performed right intraarticular hip injection on 04/07/2005.  She was last seen on 04/15/2005.  At that time, she had the hip injection that helped her briefly with her pain.  She is not sure whether or not she wants to proceed with hip replacement.  We recommend she start using a cane and had continued her on some pain medicines.,The patient comes back to see me today.  She continues to complain of significant pain in her right hip, especially with weightbearing or with movement.  She said she had made an appointment to see an orthopedic surgeon in Newton as it is closer and more convenient for her.  She is taking Ultracet or other the generic it sounds like, up to four times daily.  She states she can take this much more frequently as she still has significant pain symptoms.  She is using a cane to help her ambulate.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Essentially unchanged from her visit of 04/15/2005.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,General:  Reveals a pleasant Caucasian female.,Vital Signs:  Height is 5 feet 4 inches.  Weight is 149 pounds.  She is afebrile.,HEENT:  Benign.,Neck:  Shows functional range of movements with a negative Spurling's.,Musculoskeletal:  Examination shows some mild degenerative joint disease of both knees with grade weakness of her right hip flexors and half-grade weakness of her right hip adductors and right quadriceps, as compared to the left.  Straight leg raises are negative bilaterally.  Posterior tibials are palpable bilaterally.,Skin and Lymphatics:  Examination of the skin does not reveal any additional scars, rashes, cafe au lait spots or ulcers.  No significant lymphadenopathy noted.,Spine:  Examination shows lumbar scoliosis with surgical scar with no major tenderness.  Spinal movements are limited but functional.,Neurological:  She is alert and oriented with appropriate mood and affect.  She has normal tone and coordination.  Reflexes are 2+ and symmetrical.  Sensations are intact to pinprick.,FUNCTIONAL EXAMINATION:,  Gait has a normal stance and swing phase with no antalgic component to it.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Degenerative disk disease of the right hip, symptomatic.,2.  Low back syndrome, lumbar spinal stenosis, clinically right L2 radiculopathy, stable.,3.  Low back pain with lumbar scoliosis post laminectomy syndrome, stable.,4.  Facet and sacroiliac joint syndrome on the right, stable.,5.  Post left hip arthroplasty.,6.  Chronic pain syndrome.,RECOMMENDATIONS:,  The patient is symptomatic primarily on her right hip and is planning on seeing an orthopedic surgeon for possible right hip replacement.  In the interim, her Ultracet is not quite taking care of her pain.  I have asked her to discontinue it and we will start her on Tylenol #3, up to four times a day.  I have written a prescription for this for 120 tablets and two refills.  The patient will call for the refills when she needs them.  I will plan further follow up in six months, sooner if needed.  She voiced understanding and is in agreement with this plan.  Physical exam findings, history of present illness and recommendations were performed with and in agreement with Dr. Goel's findings.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This 49-year-old white male, established patient in dermatology, last seen in the office on 08/02/2002, comes in today for initial evaluation of a hyperesthesia on his right abdomen, then on his left abdomen, then on his left medial thigh.  It cleared for awhile.  This has been an intermittent problem.  Now it is back again on his right lower abdomen.  At first, it was thought that he may have early zoster.  This started six weeks before the holidays and is still going on, more so in the past eight days on his abdomen and right hip area.  He has had no treatment on this; there are no skin changes at all.  The patient bathes everyday but tries to use little soap.  The patient is married.  He works as an airplane mechanic.,FAMILY, SOCIAL, AND ALLERGY HISTORY:,  The patient has sinus and CVA.  He is a nonsmoker.  No known drug allergies.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Lipitor, aspirin, folic acid.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,  The patient is well developed, appears stated age.  Overall health is good.  He does have psoriasis with some psoriatic arthritis, and his skin looks normal today.  On his trunk, he does have the hyperesthesia.  As you touch him, he winces.,IMPRESSION:,  Hyperesthesia, question etiology.,TREATMENT:,1.  Discussed condition and treatment with the patient.,2.  Discontinue hot soapy water to these areas.,3.  Increase moisturizing cream and lotion.,4.  I referred him to Dr. ABC or Dr. XYZ for neurology evaluation.  We did not see anything on skin today.  Return p.r.n. flare.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is in with several medical problems.  She complains of numbness, tingling, and a pain in the toes primarily of her right foot described as a moderate pain.  She initially describes it as a sharp quality pain, but is unable to characterize it more fully.  She has had it for about a year, but seems to be worsening.  She has little bit of paraesthesias in the left toe as well and seem to involve all the toes of the right foot.  They are not worse with walking.  It seems to be worse when she is in bed.  There is some radiation of the pain up her leg.  She also continues to have bilateral shoulder pains without sinus allergies.  She has hypothyroidism.  She has thrombocythemia, insomnia, and hypertension.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Surgeries include appendectomy in 1933, bladder obstruction surgery in 1946, gallbladder surgery in 1949, another gallbladder surgery in 1954, C-section in 1951, varicose vein surgery in 1951 and again in 1991, thyroid gland surgery in 1964, hernia surgery in 1967, bilateral mastectomies in 1968 for benign disease, hysterectomy leaving her ovaries behind in 1970, right shoulder surgery x 4 and left shoulder surgery x 2 between 1976 and 1991, and laparoscopic bowel adhesion removal in October 2002.  She had a Port-A-Cath placed in June 2003, left total knee arthroplasty in June 2003, and left hip pinning due to fracture in October 2003, with pins removed in May 2004.  She has had a number of colonoscopies; next one is being scheduled at the end of this month.  She also had a right total knee arthroplasty in 1993.  She was hospitalized for synovitis of the left knee in April 2004, for zoster and infection of the left knee in May 2003, and for labyrinthitis in June 2004.,ALLERGIES: , Sulfa, aspirin, Darvon, codeine, NSAID, amoxicillin, and quinine.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Hydroxyurea 500 mg daily, Metamucil three teaspoons daily, amitriptyline 50 mg at h.s., Synthroid 0.1 mg daily, Ambien 5 mg at h.s., triamterene/hydrochlorothiazide 75/50 daily, and Lortab 5/500 at h.s. p.r.n.,SOCIAL HISTORY:,  She is a nonsmoker and nondrinker.  She has been widowed for 18 years.  She lives alone at home.  She is retired from running a restaurant.,FAMILY HISTORY:,  Mother died at age 79 of a stroke.  Father died at age 91 of old age.  Her brother had prostate cancer.  She has one brother living.  No family history of heart disease or diabetes.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,General:  Negative.,HEENT:  She does complain of some allergies, sneezing, and sore throat.  She wears glasses.,Pulmonary history:  She has bit of a cough with her allergies.,Cardiovascular history:  Negative for chest pain or palpitations.  She does have hypertension.,GI history:  Negative for abdominal pain or blood in the stool.,GU history:  Negative for dysuria or frequency.  She empties okay.,Neurologic history:  Positive for paresthesias to the toes of both feet, worse on the right.,Musculoskeletal history:  Positive for shoulder pain.,Psychiatric history:  Positive for insomnia.,Dermatologic history:  Positive for a spot on her right cheek, which she was afraid was a precancerous condition.,Metabolic history:  She has hypothyroidism.,Hematologic history:  Positive for essential thrombocythemia and anemia.,OBJECTIVE:,General:  She is a well-developed, well-nourished, elderly female in no acute distress.,Vital Signs:  Her age is 81.  Temperature:  98.0.  Blood pressure:  140/70.  Pulse:  72.  Weight:  127.,HEENT:  Head was normocephalic.  Pupils equal, round, and reactive to light.  Extraocular movements are intact.  Fundi are benign.  TMs, nares, and throat were clear.,Neck:  Supple without adenopathy or thyromegaly.,Lungs:  Clear.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur, click, or rub.  No carotid bruits are heard.,Abdomen:  Normal bowel sounds.  It is soft and nontender without hepatosplenomegaly or mass.,Breasts:  Surgically absent.  No chest wall mass was noted, except for the Port-A-Cath in the left chest.  No axillary adenopathy is noted.,Extremities:  Examination of the extremities reveals no ankle edema or calf tenderness x 2 in lower extremities.  There is a cyst on the anterior portion of the right ankle.  Pedal pulses were present.,Neurologic:  Cranial nerves II-XII grossly intact and symmetric.  Deep tendon reflexes were 1 to 2+ bilaterally at the knees.  No focal neurologic deficits were observed.,Pelvic:  BUS and external genitalia were atrophic.  Vaginal rugae were atrophic.  Cervix was surgically absent.  Bimanual exam confirmed the absence of uterus and cervix and I could not palpate any ovaries.,Rectal:  Exam confirmed there is brown stool present in the rectal vault.,Skin:  Clear other than actinic keratosis on the right cheek.,Psychiatric:  Affect is normal.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Peripheral neuropathy primarily of the right foot.,2.  Hypertension.,3.  Hypothyroidism.,4.  Essential thrombocythemia.,5.  Allergic rhinitis.,6.  Insomnia.,PLAN:

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is well-known to me.  He comes in today for a comprehensive evaluation.  Really, again he borders on health crises with high blood pressure, diabetes, and obesity.  He states that he has reached a critical decision in the last week that he understands that he cannot continue with his health decisions as they have been made, specifically the lack of exercise, the obesity, the poor eating habits, etc.  He knows better and has been through some diabetes training.  In fact, interestingly enough, with his current medications which include the Lantus at 30 units along with Actos, glyburide, and metformin, he achieved ideal blood sugar control back in August 2004.  Since that time he has gone off of his regimen of appropriate eating, and has had sugars that are running on average too high at about 178 over the last 14 days.  He has had elevated blood pressure.  His other concerns include allergic symptoms.  He has had irritable bowel syndrome with some cramping.  He has had some rectal bleeding in recent days.  Also once he wakes up he has significant difficulty in getting back to sleep.  He has had no rectal pain, just the bleeding associated with that.,MEDICATIONS/ALLERGIES:,  As above.,PAST MEDICAL/SURGICAL HISTORY: , Reviewed and updated - see Health Summary Form for details.,FAMILY AND SOCIAL HISTORY:,  Reviewed and updated - see Health Summary Form for details.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Constitutional, Eyes, ENT/Mouth, Cardiovascular, Respiratory, GI, GU, Musculoskeletal, Skin/Breasts, Neurologic, Psychiatric, Endocrine, Heme/Lymph, Allergies/Immune all negative with the following exceptions:  None.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,VITAL SIGNS:  As above.,GENERAL:  The patient is alert, oriented, well-developed, obese male who is in no acute distress.,HEENT:  PERRLA.  EOMI.  TMs clear bilaterally.  Nose and throat clear.,NECK:  Supple without adenopathy or thyromegaly.  Carotid pulses palpably normal without bruit.,CHEST:  No chest wall tenderness or breast enlargement.,HEART:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur, clicks, or rubs.,LUNGS:  Clear to auscultation and percussion.,ABDOMEN:  Significantly obese without any discernible organomegaly.  GU:  Normal male genitalia without testicular abnormalities, inguinal adenopathy, or hernia.,RECTAL:  Smooth, nonenlarged prostate with just some irritation around the rectum itself.  No hemorrhoids are noted.,EXTREMITIES:  Some slow healing over the tibia.  Without clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.  Peripheral pulses within normal limits.,NEUROLOGIC:  Cranial nerves II-XII intact.  Strength, sensation, coordination, and reflexes all within normal limits.,SKIN:  Noted to be normal.  No subcutaneous masses noted.,LYMPH SYSTEM:  No lymphadenopathy noted.,BACK:  He has pain in his back in general.,ASSESSMENT/PLAN:,1.  Diabetes and hypertension, both under less than appropriate control.  In fact, we discussed increasing the Lantus.  He appears genuine in his desire to embark on a substantial weight-lowering regime, and is going to do that through dietary control.  He knows what needs to be done with the absence of carbohydrates, and especially simple sugar.  He will also check a hemoglobin A1c, lipid profile, urine for microalbuminuria and a chem profile.  I will need to recheck him in a month to verify that his sugars and blood pressure have come into the ideal range.  He has allergic rhinitis for which Zyrtec can be used.,2.  He has irritable bowel syndrome.  We will use Metamucil for that which also should help stabilize the stools so that the irritation of the rectum is lessened.  For the bleeding I would like to obtain a sigmoidoscopy.  It is bright red blood.,3.  For his insomnia, I found there is very little in the way of medications that are going to fix that, however I have encouraged him in good sleep hygiene.  I will look forward to seeing him back in a month.  I will call him with the results of his lab.  His medications were made out.  We will use some Elocon cream for his seborrheic dermatitis of the face.  Zyrtec and Flonase for his allergic rhinitis.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient comes in today for a comprehensive evaluation.  She is well-known to me.  I have seen her in the past multiple times.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY/SOCIAL HISTORY/FAMILY HISTORY: , Noted and reviewed today.  They are on the health care flow sheet.  She has significant anxiety which has been under fair control recently.  She has a lot of stress associated with a son that has some challenges.  There is a family history of hypertension and strokes.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Currently taking Toprol and Avalide for hypertension and anxiety as I mentioned.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Significant for occasional tiredness.  This is intermittent and currently not severe.  She is concerned about the possibly of glucose abnormalities such diabetes.  We will check a glucose, lipid profile and a Hemoccult test also and a mammogram.  Her review of systems is otherwise negative.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,VITAL SIGNS:  As above.,GENERAL:  The patient is alert, oriented, in no acute distress.,HEENT:  PERRLA.  EOMI.  TMs clear bilaterally.  Nose and throat clear.,NECK:  Supple without adenopathy or thyromegaly.  Carotid pulses palpably normal without bruit.,CHEST:  No chest wall tenderness.,BREAST EXAM:  No asymmetry, skin changes, dominant masses, nipple discharge, or axillary adenopathy.,HEART:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur, clicks, or rubs.,LUNGS:  Clear to auscultation and percussion.,ABDOMEN:  Soft, nontender, bowel sounds normoactive.  No masses or organomegaly.,GU:  External genitalia without lesions.  BUS normal.  Vulva and vagina show just mild atrophy without any lesions.  Her cervix and uterus are within normal limits.  Ovaries are not really palpable.  No pelvic masses are appreciated.,RECTAL:  Negative.,BREASTS:  No significant abnormalities.,EXTREMITIES:  Without clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.  Pulses within normal limits.,NEUROLOGIC:  Cranial nerves II-XII intact.  Strength, sensation, coordination, and reflexes all within normal limits.,SKIN:  Noted to be normal.  No subcutaneous masses noted.,LYMPH SYSTEM:  No lymphadenopathy.,ASSESSMENT:,  Generalized anxiety and hypertension, both under fair control.,PLAN:,  We will not make any changes in her medications.  I will have her check a lipid profile as mentioned, and I will call her with that.  Screening mammogram will be undertaken.  She declined a sigmoidoscopy at this time.  I look forward to seeing her back in a year and as needed.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient complains of backache, stomachache, and dysuria for the last two days.  Fever just started today and cough.  She has history of kidney stones less than a year ago and had a urinary tract infection at that time.  Her back started hurting last night.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  She denies sexual activities since two years ago.  Her last menstrual period was 06/01/2004.  Her periods have been irregular.  She started menarche at 10 years of age and she is still irregular and it runs in Mom’s side of the family.  Mom and maternal aunt have had total hysterectomies.  She also is diagnosed with abnormal valve has to be on SBE prophylaxis, sees Dr. XYZ Allen.  She avoids decongestants.  She is limited on her activity secondary to her heart condition.,MEDICATION:,  Cylert.,ALLERGIES: , No known drug allergies.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital Signs:  Blood pressure is 124/72.  Temperature 99.2.  Respirations 20 unlabored.  Weight:  137 pounds.,HEENT:  Normocephalic.  Conjunctivae noninjected.  No mattering noted.  Her TMs are bilaterally clear, nonerythematous.  Throat clear, good mucous membrane moisture, but she did have erythema and edema at her posterior soft palate.,Neck:  Supple.  Increased lymphadenopathy noted in the submandibular nodes, but no axillary nodes and no hepatosplenomegaly.,Respiratory:  Clear.  No wheezes, no crackles, no tachypnea, and no retractions.,Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm.  S1 and S2 normal, no murmur.,Abdomen:  Soft.  No organomegaly.  She did have exquisite tenderness to palpation of the left upper quadrant and flank area, but the spleen was not palpable.  She has no suprapubic tenderness.,Extremities:  She has good range of motion of upper and lower extremities.  Good ambulation.,Her UA was positive for 2+ leukocyte esterase, positive nitrites, 1+ protein, 2+ ketones, 4+ blood, greater than 50 white blood cells, 10-20 rbc’s, and 1+ bacteria.  Culture and sensitivity is pending.  Her Strep test is negative.  Culture is pending.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Urinary dysuria.,2.  Left flank pain.,3.  Pharyngitis.,PLAN:,  A 1 g of Rocephin IM was given.  Call Dr. B's office tomorrow morning incase a second IM dose is needed.  If not then she will fill a prescription for Omnicef 300 mg capsule 1 p.o. b.i.d. for 10 days total and then we will await the culture and sensitivity results to see if this is appropriate drug.  Push fluids.  Await strep culture report.  Follow up with Dr. XYZ if no better or symptoms worsen.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a 12-year-old young man who comes in with about 10 days worth of sinus congestion.  He does have significant allergies including ragweed.  The drainage has been clear.  He had a little bit of a headache yesterday.  He has had no fever.  No one else is ill at home currently.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Advair and Allegra.  He has been taking these regularly.  He is not sure the Allegra is working for him anymore.  He does think though better than Claritin.,PHYSICAL EXAM:,General:  Alert young man in no distress.,HEENT:  TMs clear and mobile.  Pharynx clear.  Mouth moist.  Nasal mucosa pale with clear discharge.,Neck:  Supple without adenopathy.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur.,Lungs:  Lungs clear, no tachypnea, wheezing, rales or retractions.,Abdomen:  Soft, nontender, without masses or splenomegaly.,ASSESSMENT:,  I think this is still his allergic rhinitis rather than a sinus infection.,PLAN:,  Change to Zyrtec 10 mg samples were given.  He is not using nasal spray, but he has some at home.  He should restart this.  Continue to watch his peak flows to make sure his asthma does not come under poor control.  Call if any further problems.

SUBJECTIVE:,  Mom brings the patient in today for possible ear infection.  He is complaining of left ear pain today.  He was treated on 04/14/2004, with amoxicillin for left otitis and Mom said he did seem to get better but just started complaining of the left ear pain today.  He has not had any fever but the congestion has continued to be very thick and purulent.  It has never really resolved.  He has a loose, productive-sounding cough but not consistently and not keeping him up at night.  No wheezing or shortness of breath.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  He has had some wheezing in the past but nothing recently.,FAMILY HISTORY: , All siblings are on antibiotics for ear infections and URIs.,OBJECTIVE:,General:  The patient is a 5-year-old male.  Alert and cooperative.  No acute distress.,Neck:  Supple without adenopathy.,HEENT:  Ear canals clear.  TMs, bilaterally, have distorted light reflexes but no erythema.  Gray in color.  Oropharynx pink and moist with a lot of postnasal discharge.  Nares are swollen and red.  Thick, purulent drainage.  Eyes are a little puffy.,Chest:  Respirations regular, nonlabored.,Lungs:  Clear to auscultation throughout.,Heart:  Regular rhythm without murmur.,Skin:  Warm, dry, pink.  Moist mucus membranes.  No rash.,ASSESSMENT:,  Ongoing purulent rhinitis.  Probable sinusitis and serous otitis.,PLAN:,  Change to Omnicef two teaspoons daily for 10 days.  Frequent saline in the nose.  Also, there was some redness around the nares with a little bit of yellow crusting.  It appeared to be the start of impetigo, so hold off on the Rhinocort for a few days and then restart.  Use a little Neosporin for now.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 2-year-old little girl who comes in with concerns about stuffiness, congestion and nasal drainage.  She does take Zyrtec on a fairly regular basis.  Mom is having some allergy trouble herself right now.  She does not know her colors.  She knows some of her shapes.  She speaks in sentences.  She is not showing much interest in the potty.  She is in the 80th percentile for height and weight, and still over 95th percentile for head circumference.  Mom has no other concerns.,ALLERGIES:,  Eggs and peanuts.,OBJECTIVE:,General:  Alert, very talkative little girl.,HEENT:  TMs clear and mobile.  Eyes:  PERRL.  Fundi benign.  Pharynx clear.  Mouth moist.  Nasal mucosa is pale with clear discharge.,Neck:  Supple without adenopathy.,Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur.,Lungs:  Clear.  No tachypnea, wheezing, rales or retractions.,Abdomen:  Soft and nontender without mass or organomegaly.,GU:  Normal female genitalia.  Tanner stage I.,Extremities:  No clubbing, cyanosis or edema.  Pulses 2+ and equal.,Hips:  Intact.,Neurological:  Normal.  DTRs are 2+.  Gait was normal.,Skin:  Warm and dry.  No rashes noted.,ASSESSMENT:,  Allergic rhinitis.  Otherwise healthy 2-year-old young lady.,PLAN:,  In addition to her Zyrtec, I put her on Nasonex spray one spray each nostril daily.  If this works for her, certainly she can do it through the ragweed season.  Otherwise she is doing well.  I talked about ways to improve her potty training.  She is a very good eater.  I will see her yearly or p.r.n.  Unfortunately she is not able to get the flu shot due to her egg allergy.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is an 11-year-old female who comes in for two different things.  1.  She was seen by the allergist.  No allergies present, so she stopped her Allegra, but she is still real congested and does a lot of snorting.  They do not notice a lot of snoring at night though, but she seems to be always like that.  2.  On her right great toe, she has got some redness and erythema.  Her skin is kind of peeling a little bit, but it has been like that for about a week and a half now.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Otherwise reviewed and noted.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  None.,ALLERGIES TO MEDICINES:,  None.,FAMILY SOCIAL HISTORY:,  Everyone else is healthy at home.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  She has been having the redness of her right great toe, but also just a chronic nasal congestion and fullness.  Review of systems is otherwise negative.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,General:  Well-developed female, in no acute distress, afebrile.,HEENT:  Sclerae and conjunctivae clear.  Extraocular muscles intact.  TMs clear.  Nares patent.  A little bit of swelling of the turbinates on the left.  Oropharynx is essentially clear.  Mucous membranes are moist.,Neck:  No lymphadenopathy.,Chest:  Clear.,Abdomen:  Positive bowel sounds and soft.,Dermatologic:  She has got redness along the lateral portion of her right great toe, but no bleeding or oozing.  Some dryness of her skin.  Her toenails themselves are very short and even on her left foot and her left great toe the toenails are very short.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  History of congestion, possibly enlarged adenoids, or just her anatomy.,2.  Ingrown toenail, but slowly resolving on its own.,PLAN:,1.  For the congestion, we will have ENT evaluate.  Appointment has been made with Dr. XYZ for in a couple of days.,2.  I told her just Neosporin for her toe, letting the toenail grow out longer.  Call if there are problems.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a 1-year-old male who comes in with a cough and congestion for the past two to three weeks.  Started off as a congestion but then he started coughing about a week ago.  Cough has gotten worsen.  Mother was also worried.  He had Pop Can just three days ago and she never found the top of that and was wondering if he had swallowed that, but his breathing has not gotten worse since that happened.  He is not running any fevers.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Otherwise, reviewed.  Fairly healthy.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  None.,ALLERGIES TO MEDICINES:,  None.,FAMILY SOCIAL HISTORY:,  The sister is in today with clinical sinusitis.  Mother and father have been healthy.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  He has been congested for about three weeks ago.  Coughing now but no fevers.  No vomiting.  Review of systems is otherwise negative.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,General:  Well-developed male in no acute distress, afebrile.,Vital Signs:  Weight:  22 pounds 6 ounces.,HEENT:  Sclerae and conjunctivae are clear.  Extraocular muscles are intact.  TMs are clear.  Nares are very congested.  Oropharynx has drainage in the back of the throat.  Mucous membranes are moist.  Mild erythema though.,Neck:  Some shotty lymphadenopathy.  Full range of motion.  Supple.,Chest:  Clear.  No crackles.  No wheezes.,Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm.  Normal S1, S2.,Abdomen:  Positive bowel sounds and soft.,Dermatologic:  Clear.  Tone is good.  Capillary refill less than 3 seconds.,RADIOLOGY:,  Chest x-ray:  No foreign body noted as well.  No signs of pneumonia.,ASSESSMENT:,  Clinical sinusitis and secondary cough.,PLAN:,  Amoxicillin a teaspoon twice daily for 10 days.  Plenty of fluids.  Tylenol and Motrin p.r.n., as well as oral decongestant and if coughing is not improving.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a 2-year-old female who comes in for just rechecking her weight, her breathing status, and her diet.  The patient is in foster care, has a long history of the prematurity, born at 22 weeks.  She has chronic lung disease, is on ventilator, but doing sprints, has been doing very well, is up to 4-1/2 hours sprints twice daily and may go up 15 minutes every three days or so; which she has been tolerating fairly well as long as they kind of get her distracted towards the end, otherwise, she does get sort of tachypneic.  She is on 2-1/2 liters of oxygen and does require that.  Her diet has been fluctuating.  They have been trying to figure out what works best with her.  She has been on some Pediasure for the increased calories but that really makes her distended in the abdomen and constipates her.  They have been doing more pureed foods and that seems to loosen her up, so they have been doing more Isomil 24 cal and baby foods and not so much Pediasure.  She was hospitalized a couple of weeks back for the distension she had in the abdomen.  Dr. XYZ has been working with her G-tube, increasing her Mic-key button size, but also doing some silver nitrate applications, and he is going to evaluate her again next week, but they are happy with the way her G-tube site is looking.  She also has been seen Dr. Eisenbaum, just got of new pair of glasses this week and sees him in another couple of weeks for reevaluation.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Flagyl, vitamins, Zyrtec, albuterol, and some Colace.,ALLERGIES TO MEDICINES: , None.,FAMILY SOCIAL HISTORY:,  As mentioned, she is in foster care.  Foster mom is actually going to be out of town for a week the 19th through the 23rd, so she will probably be hospitalized in respite care because there are no other foster care situations that can handle the patient.  Biological Mom and Grandma do visit on Thursdays for about an hour.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  The patient has been eating fairly well, sleeping well, doing well with her sprints.  A little difficulty with her stools hard versus soft as mentioned with the diet situation up in HPI.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,Vital Signs:  She is 28 pounds 8 ounces today, 33-1/2 inches tall.  She is on 2-1/2 liters, but she is not the vent currently, she is doing her sprints, and her respiratory rate is around 40.,HEENT:  Sclerae and conjunctivae are clear.  TMs are clear.  Nares are patent.  Oropharynx is clear.  Trach site is clear of any signs of infection.,Chest:  Coarse.  She has got little bit of wheezing going on, but she is moving air fairly well.,Abdomen:  Positive bowel sounds and soft.  The G-tube site looks fairly clean today and healthy.  No signs of infection.  Her tone is good.  Capillary refill is less than three seconds.,ASSESSMENT:,  A 2-year-old with chronic lung disease, doing the sprints, some bowel difficulties, also just weight gain issues because of the high-energy expenditure with the sprints that she is doing.,PLAN:,  At this point is to continue with the Isomil and pureed baby foods, a little bit of Pediasure.  They are going to see Dr. XYZ towards the end of this month and follow up with Dr. Eisenbaum.  I would like to see her in approximately six weeks again, but we do need to keep a close check on her weight and call if there are problems beforehand.  She is just doing wonderful progression on her development.  Each time I see her, I am very impressed, that relayed to foster mom.  Approximately 25 minutes spent with the patient, most of it counseling.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 76-year-old white female who presents to the clinic today originally for hypertension and a med check.  She has a history of hypertension, osteoarthritis, osteoporosis, hypothyroidism, allergic rhinitis and kidney stones.  Since her last visit she has been followed by Dr. Kumar.  Those issues are stable.  She has had no fever or chills, cough, congestion, nausea, vomiting, chest pain, chest pressure.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  She has an intolerance to Prevacid.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Evista 60 daily, Levothroid 0.05 mg daily, Claritin 10 daily, Celebrex 200 daily, HCTZ 25 daily and amitriptyline p.r.n.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:,  Bilateral mastectomies, tonsillectomy, EGD, flex sig in 2001 and a heart cath.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Father passed away at 81; mother of multiple myeloma at 83.,SOCIAL HISTORY:,  She is married.  A 76-year-old who used to smoke a pack a day and quit in 1985.  She is retired.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Essentially negative in HEENT, chest, cardiovascular, GI, GU, musculoskeletal, or neurologic.,OBJECTIVE:,  Temperature is 97.5 degrees.  Blood pressure is 168/70.  Pulse is 88.  Weight is 129 pounds.,GENERAL:  She is an elderly 76-year-old in no acute distress.,HEENT:  Atraumatic.  Extraocular muscles were intact.  Pupils equal, round and reactive to light and accommodation.  Tympanic membranes are clear, dry and intact.  Sinuses and throat are clear.  Neck is soft, supple.  No meningeal signs are present.  No thyromegaly is present.,CHEST:  Clear to auscultation.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur.,ABDOMEN:  Soft, nontender.  Bowel sounds are positive.  No organomegaly or peritoneal signs are present.,EXTREMITIES:  Moving all extremities.  Peripheral pulses are normal.  No edema is present.,NEUROLOGIC:  Alert and oriented.  Cranial nerves II-XII grossly intact.  Strength 5+/5 globally.  Reflexes 2+/IV globally.  Romberg is negative.  There is no numbness, tingling, weakness or other neurologic deficit present.,BREASTS:  Surgically absent but there are no lumps, lesions, masses, discharge or adenopathy present.,BACK:  Straight.,SKIN:  Clear.,GENITALIA:  Deferred as she has been followed by Dr. XYZ many times this year.  She does have a history of some elevated cholesterol.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Hypertension, suboptimal control.,2.  Hypothyroidism.,3.  Arthritis.,4.  Allergic rhinitis.,5.  History of kidney stones.,6.  Osteoporosis.,PLAN:,1.  CBC, complete metabolic profile, UA for hypertension.,2.  Chest x-ray for history of breast cancer.,3.  DEXA scan, full body for osteoporosis.,4.  Flex is up to date.,5.  Pneumovax has been given in the last five years.,6.  Lipid profile for elevated cholesterol.,7.  Refill meds.,8.  Follow up every three to six months for blood pressure check or sooner p.r.n. problems.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a 54-year-old female who comes for dietary consultation for weight reduction secondary to diabetes.  She did attend diabetes education classes at Abc Clinic.  She comes however, wanting to really work at weight reduction.  She indicates that she has been on the Atkins' diet for about two years and lost about ten pounds.  She is now following a veggie diet which she learned about in Poland originally.  She has been on it for three weeks and intends to follow it for another three weeks.  This does not allow any fruits or grains or starchy vegetables or meats.  She does eat nuts for protein.  She is wanting to know if she is at risk of having a severe low blood sugar reaction in this form of diet.  She also wants to know that if she gets skinny enough, if the diabetes will go away.  Her problem time, blood sugar wise, is in the morning.  She states that if she eats too much in the evening that her blood sugars are always higher the next morning.,OBJECTIVE:,  Weight:  189 pounds.  Reported height:  5 feet 5 inches.  BMI is approximately 31-1/2.  Diabetes medications include metformin 500 mg daily.  Lab from 5/12/04:  Hemoglobin A1C was 6.4%.,A diet history was obtained.  I instructed the patient on dietary guidelines for weight reduction.  A 1200-calorie meal plan was recommended.,ASSESSMENT:,  Patient's diet history reflects that she is highly restricting carbohydrates in her food intake.  She does not have blood sugar records with her for me to review, but we discussed strategies for improving blood sugar control in the morning.  This primarily included a recommendation of including some solid protein with her bedtime snack which could be done in the form of nuts.  She is doing some physical activity two to three times a week.  This includes aerobic walking with weights on her arms and her ankles.  She is likely going to need to increase frequency in this area to help support weight reduction.  Her basal metabolic rate was estimated at 1415 calories a day.  Her total calorie requirements for weight maintenance are estimated at 1881 calories a day.  A 1200-calorie meal plan should support a weight loss of at least one pound a week.,PLAN:,  Recommend patient increase the frequency of her walking to five days a week.  Encouraged a 30-minute duration.  Also recommend patient include some solid protein with her bedtime snack to help address fasting blood sugar elevations.  And lastly, I encouraged caloric intake of just under 1200 calories daily.  Recommend keeping food records and tracking caloric intake.  It is unlikely that her blood sugars would drop significantly low on the current dose of Glucophage.  However, I encouraged her to be careful not to reduce calories below 1000 calories daily.  She may want to consider a multivitamin as well.  This was a one-hour consultation.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a 56-year-old female who comes in for a dietary consultation for hyperlipidemia, hypertension, gastroesophageal reflux disease and weight reduction.  The patient states that her husband has been diagnosed with high blood cholesterol as well.  She wants some support with some dietary recommendations to assist both of them in healthier eating.  The two of them live alone now, and she is used to cooking for large portions.  She is having a hard time adjusting to preparing food for the two of them.  She would like to do less food preparation, in fact.  She is starting a new job this week.,OBJECTIVE:,  Her reported height is 5 feet 4 inches.  Today’s weight was 170 pounds.  BMI is approximately 29.  A diet history was obtained.  I instructed the patient on a 1200 calorie meal plan emphasizing low-saturated fat sources with moderate amounts of sodium as well.  Information on fast food eating was supplied, and additional information on low-fat eating was also supplied.,ASSESSMENT:,  The patient’s basal energy expenditure is estimated at 1361 calories a day.  Her total calorie requirement for weight maintenance is estimated at 1759 calories a day.  Her diet history reflects that she is making some very healthy food choices on a regular basis.  She does emphasize a lot of fruits and vegetables, trying to get a fruit or a vegetable or both at most meals.  She also is emphasizing lower fat selections.  Her physical activity level is moderate at this time.  She is currently walking for 20 minutes four or five days out of the week but at a very moderate pace with a friend.  We reviewed the efforts at weight reduction identifying 3500 calories in a pound of body fat and the need to gradually and slowly chip away at this number on a long-term basis for weight reduction.  We discussed the need to reduce calories from what her current patterns are and to hopefully increase physical activity slightly as well.  We discussed menu selection, as well as food preparation techniques.  The patient appears to have been influenced by the current low-carb, high-protein craze and had really limited her food selections based on that.  I was able to give her some more room for variety including some moderate portions of potatoes, pasta and even on occasion breading her meat as long as she prepares it in a low-fat fashion which was discussed.,PLAN:,  Recommend the patient increase the intensity and the duration of her physical activity with a goal of 30 minutes five days a week working at a brisk walk.  Recommend the patient reduce calories by 500 daily to support a weight loss of one pound a week.  This translates into a 1200-calorie meal plan.  I encouraged the patient to keep food records in order to better track calories consumed.  I recommended low fat selections and especially those that are lower in saturated fats.  Emphasis would be placed on moderating portions of meat and having more moderate snacks between meals as well.  This was a one-hour consultation.  I provided my name and number should additional needs arise.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a 38-year-old female who comes for dietary consultation for gestational diabetes.  Patient reports that she is scared to eat because of its impact on her blood sugars.  She is actually trying not to eat while she is working third shift at Wal-Mart.  Historically however, she likes to eat out with a high frequency.  She enjoys eating rice as part of her meals.  She is complaining of feeling fatigued and tired all the time because she works from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m. at Wal-Mart and has young children at home.  She sleeps two to four hours at a time throughout the day.  She has been testing for ketones first thing in the morning when she gets home from work.,OBJECTIVE:,  Today's weight:  155.5 pounds.  Weight from 10/07/04 was 156.7 pounds.  A diet history was obtained.  Blood sugar records for the last three days reveal the following:  fasting blood sugars 83, 84, 87, 77; two-hour postprandial breakfast 116, 107, 97; pre-lunch 85, 108, 77; two-hour postprandial lunch 86, 131, 100; pre-supper 78, 91, 100; two-hour postprandial supper 125, 121, 161; bedtime 104, 90 and 88.  I instructed the patient on dietary guidelines for gestational diabetes.  The Lily Guide for Meal Planning was provided and reviewed.  Additional information on gestational diabetes was applied.  A sample 2000-calorie meal plan was provided with a carbohydrate budget established.,ASSESSMENT:,  Patient's basal energy expenditure adjusted for obesity is estimated at 1336 calories a day.  Her total calorie requirements, including a physical activity factor as well as additional calories for pregnancy, totals to 2036 calories per day.  Her diet history reveals that she has somewhat irregular eating patterns.  In the last 24 hours when she was working at Wal-Mart, she ate at 5 a.m. but did not eat anything prior to that since starting work at 10 p.m.  We discussed the need for small frequent eating.  We identified carbohydrate as the food source that contributes to the blood glucose response.  We identified carbohydrate sources in the food supply, recognizing that they are all good for her.  The only carbohydrates she was asked to entirely avoid would be the concentrated forms of refined sugars.  In regard to use of her traditional foods of rice, I pulled out a one-third cup measuring cup to identify a 15-gram equivalent of rice.  We discussed the need for moderating the portion of carbohydrates consumed at one given time.  Emphasis was placed at eating with a high frequency with a goal of eating every two to four hours over the course of the day when she is awake.  Her weight loss was discouraged.  Patient was encouraged to eat more generously but with attention to the amount of carbohydrates consumed at a time.,PLAN:,  The meal plan provided has a carbohydrate content that represents 40 percent of a 2000-calorie meal plan.  The meal plan was devised to distribute her carbohydrates more evenly throughout the day.  The meal plan was meant to reflect an example for her eating, while the patient was encouraged to eat according to appetite and not to go without eating for long periods of time.  The meal plan is as follows:  breakfast 2 carbohydrate servings, snack 1 carbohydrate serving, lunch 2-3 carbohydrate servings, snack 1 carbohydrate serving, dinner 2-3 carbohydrate servings, bedtime snack 1-2 carbohydrate servings.  Recommend patient include a solid protein with each of her meals as well as with her snack that occurs before going to sleep.  Encouraged adequate rest.  Also recommend adequate calories to sustain weight gain of one-half to one pound per week.  If the meal plan reflected does not support slow gradual weight gain, then we will need to add more foods accordingly.  This was a one-hour consultation.  I provided my name and number should additional needs arise.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a followup dietary consultation for polycystic ovarian syndrome and hyperlipidemia.  The patient reports that she has resumed food record keeping which she feels like it has given her greater control.  Her physical activity level has remained high.  Her struggle times are in the mid-afternoon if she has not had enough food to eat, as well as in the evening after dinner.,OBJECTIVE:, Vital Signs:  Weight is 189-1/2 pounds.  Food records were reviewed,ASSESSMENT:,  The patient has experienced a weight loss of 1-1/2 pounds in the last month.  She is commended for these efforts.  We have reviewed food records identifying that she has done a nice job keeping a calorie count for the last two or three weeks.  We discussed the value of this and how it was very difficulty to resume it, however, after she suspended the record keeping.  We also discussed its reflection that she is not getting very many fruits and vegetables on a regular basis.  We identified some ways of preventing her from feeling sluggish and having problems with low blood sugar in the middle of the afternoon by routinely planning an afternoon snack that can prevent these symptoms.  This will likely be around 2:30 or 3 p.m. for her.  We also discussed strategies for evening snacking to help put some definition and boundaries to the snacking.,PLAN:,  I recommended the patient routinely include an afternoon snack around 2:30 to 3 p.m.  It will be helpful if this snack includes some protein such as nuts or low-fat cheese.  She is also encouraged to continue with her record keeping for food choices and calorie points.  I also recommended she maintain her high level of physical activity.  Will plan to follow the patient in one month for ongoing support.  This was a 30-minute consultation.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a followup dietary consultation for hyperlipidemia, hypertension, and possible metabolic syndrome.  The patient reports that she has worked hard for a number of weeks following the meal plan prescribed, but felt like she was gaining weight and not losing weight on it.  She is not sure that she was following it accurately.  She is trying to walk 1-1/2 to 2 miles every other day, but is increasing her time in the garden and doing other yard work as well.  Once she started experiencing some weight gain, she went back to her old South Beach Diet and felt like she was able to take some of that weight off.  However she realizes that the South Beach Diet is not a healthy diet for her and so is coming back for better instruction on safe weight loss and low-fat eating.,OBJECTIVE:,  Weight is 275 pounds.  Food records were reviewed.,ASSESSMENT:,  The patient experienced a weight gain of 2 pounds since our last consultation which was two months ago.  I did carefully review her food records and evaluated calories consumed.  While she was carefully tracking the volume of protein and carbohydrates, she was getting some excess calories from the fatty proteins selected.  Thus we rearranged her meal plan a little bit and talked about how to track her fat calories as well.  She was more open to reducing the amount of protein from the previous meal plan and increasing slightly the amount of carbohydrates.  While this still is not as much carbohydrate as I would normally recommend, I am certainly willing to work with her on how she feels her body best handles weight reduction.  We also discussed a snack that could be eliminated in the morning because she really is not hungry at that time.,PLAN:,  A new 1500 calorie meal plan was developed based on 35% of the calories coming from protein, 40% of the calories from carbohydrate, and 25% of the calories from fat.  This translates in to 10 servings at 15 grams a piece of carbohydrates throughout the day dividing them in to groups of two servings per meal and per snack.  This also translates in to 2 ounces of protein at breakfast, 6 ounces at lunch, 2 ounces in the afternoon snack, 6 ounces at supper, and 2 ounces in the evening snack.  We have eliminated the morning snack.  The patient will now track the grams of fat in her meats as well as added fats.  Her goal for total fats over the course of the day is no more than 42 grams of fat per day.  This was a half hour consultation.  We will plan to see the patient back in one month for support.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 79-year-old African-American female with a self reported height of 5 foot 3 inches and weight of 197 pounds.  She was diagnosed with type 2 diabetes in 1983.  She is not allergic to any medicines.,DIABETES MEDICATIONS:,  Her diabetes medications include Humulin insulin 70/30, 44 units at breakfast and 22 units at supper.  Also metformin 500 mg at supper.,OTHER MEDICATIONS: , Other medications include verapamil, Benicar, Toprol, clonidine, and hydrochlorothiazide.,ASSESSMENT:,  The patient and her daughter completed both days of diabetes education in a group setting.  Blood glucose records and food diaries are reviewed by the diabetes educator and the dietician.  Fasting blood sugars are 127, 80, and 80.  Two-hour postprandial breakfast reading was 105, two-hour postprandial lunch reading was 88, and two-hour postprandial dinner reading was 73 and 63.  Her diet was excellent.,Seven hours of counseling about diabetes mellitus was provided on this date.,Blood glucose values obtained at 10 a.m. were 84 and at 2.30 p.m. were 109.  Assessment of her knowledge is completed at the end of the counseling session.  She demonstrated increased knowledge in all areas and had no further questions.  She also completed an evaluation of the class.,The patient's feet were examined during the education session.  She had flat feet bilaterally.  Skin color was pink, temperature warm.  Pedal pulses 2+.  Her right second and third toes lay on each other.  Also, the same on her left foot.  However, there was no skin breakdown.  She had large bunions, medial aspect of the ball of both feet.  She had positive sensitivity to most areas of her feet, however, she had negative sensitivity to the medial and lateral aspect of the balls of her left foot.,During the education session, she set behavioral goals for self care.  First goal is to eat three meals a day and eat three snacks daily to improve her blood glucose levels.  Second goal is to eat a well balanced meal at 1200 calories in order to lose one-half pound of weight per week and improve her blood glucose control.  Third goal is to exercise by walking for 15 to 30 minutes a day, three to five days a week to increase her blood glucose control.  Her success in achieving these goals will be followed in three months by a letter from the diabetes education class.,RECOMMENDATIONS:,  Since she is doing so well with her diet changes, her blood sugars have been within normal limits and sometimes on the low side, especially considering the fact that she has low blood sugar unawareness.  She is to followup with Dr. XYZ for possible reduction in her insulin doses.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is brought in by an assistant with some of his food diary sheets.  They wonder if the patient needs to lose anymore weight.,OBJECTIVE:,  The patient's weight today is 186-1/2 pounds, which is down 1-1/2 pounds in the past month.  He has lost a total of 34-1/2 pounds.  I praised this.  I went over his food diary and praised all of his positive food choices reported, especially his use of sugar-free Kool-Aid, sugar-free pudding, and diet pop.  I encouraged him to continue all of that, as well as his regular physical activity.,ASSESSMENT:,  The patient is losing weight at an acceptable rate.  He needs to continue keeping a food diary and his regular physical activity.,PLAN:,  The patient plans to see Dr. XYZ at the end of May 2005.  I recommended that they ask Dr. XYZ what weight he would like for the patient to be at.  Follow up will be with me June 13, 2005.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient's assistant brings in her food diary sheets.  The patient says she stays active by walking at the mall.,OBJECTIVE:,  Weight today is 201 pounds, which is down 3 pounds in the past month.  She has lost a total of 24 pounds.  I praised this and encouraged her to continue.  I went over her food diary.  I praised her three-meal pattern and all of her positive food choices, especially the use of sugar-free Kool-Aid, sugar-free Jell-O, sugar-free lemonade, diet pop, as well as the variety of foods she is using in her three-meal pattern.  I encouraged her to continue all of this.,ASSESSMENT:,  The patient has been successful with weight loss due to assistance from others in keeping a food diary, picking lower-calorie items, her three-meal pattern, getting a balanced diet, and all her physical activity.  She needs to continue all this.,PLAN:,  Followup is set for 06/13/05 to check the patient's weight, her food diary, and answer any questions.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a 28-year-old female who comes for dietary consultation for diabetes during pregnancy.  Patient reports that she had gestational diabetes with her first pregnancy.  She did use insulin at that time as well.  She does not fully understand what ketones are.  She walks her daughter to school and back home each day which takes 20 minutes each way.  She is not a big milk drinker, but she does try to drink some.,OBJECTIVE:,  Weight is 238.3 pounds.  Weight from last week’s visit was 238.9 pounds.  Prepregnancy weight is reported at 235 pounds.  Height is 62-3/4 inches.  Prepregnancy BMI is approximately 42-1/2.  Insulin schedule is NovoLog 70/30, 20 units in the morning and 13 units at supper time.  Blood sugar records for the last week reveal the following:  Fasting blood sugars ranging from 92 to 104 with an average of 97, two-hour postprandial breakfast readings ranging from 172 to 196 with an average of 181, two-hour postprandial lunch readings ranging from 149 to 189 with an average of 168 and two-hour postprandial dinner readings ranging from 109 to 121 with an average of 116.  Overall average is 140.  A diet history was obtained.  Expected date of confinement is May 1, 2005.  Instructed the patient on dietary guidelines for gestational diabetes.  A 2300 meal plan was provided and reviewed.  The Lily Guide for Meal Planning was provided and reviewed.,ASSESSMENT:,  Patient’s basal energy expenditure adjusted for obesity is estimated at 1566 calories a day.  Her total calorie requirements, including physical activity factors as well as additional calories for pregnancy, totals 2367 calories a day.  Her diet history reveals that she is eating three meals a day and three snacks.  The snacks were just added last week following presence of ketones in her urine.  We identified carbohydrate sources in the food supply, recognizing that they are the foods that raise blood sugar the most.  We identified 15 gram equivalents of carbohydrate and established a carbohydrate budget.  We also discussed the goal of balancing food intake with blood sugar control and adequate caloric intake to sustain appropriate weight gain for the pregnancy of 1/2 a pound a week through the duration of the pregnancy.  We discussed the physiology of ketone production from inadequate calories or inadequate insulin and elevated blood sugars.  While a sample meal plan was provided reflecting the patient’s carbohydrate budget I emphasized the need for her to eat according to her appetite, but to work at consistency in the volume of carbohydrates consumed at a given meal or a given snack from day to day.  Patient was assured that we can titrate the insulin to match whatever eating pattern is suitable for her as long as she can do it on a consistent basis.  At the same time she was encouraged to continue to eliminate the more concentrated forms of refined carbohydrates.,PLAN:,  Recommend the patient work with the following meal plan with a carbohydrate budget representing approximately 45% of the calories from carbohydrate.  Breakfast:  Three carbohydrate servings.  Morning snack:  One carbohydrate serving.  Lunch:  Four carbohydrate servings.  Afternoon snack:  One carbohydrate serving.  Supper:  Four carbohydrate servings.  Bedtime snack:  One carbohydrate serving.  Encouraged patient to include some solid protein with each of her meals as well as with the bedtime snack.  Encouraged three servings of dairy products per day to meet nutritional needs for calcium during pregnancy.  Recommend patient include a fruit or a vegetable with most of her meals.  Also recommend including solid protein with each meal as well as with the bedtime snack.  Charlie Athene reviewed blood sugars at this consultation as well, and made the following insulin adjustment:  Morning 70/30, will increase from 20 units up to 24 units and evening 70/30, we will increase from 13 units up to 16 units.  Patient was encouraged to call in blood sugars at the end of the week if they are outside of the range of over 90 fasting and over 120 two-hour postprandial.  Provided my name and number should there be additional dietary questions.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is keeping a food journal that she brought in.  She is counting calorie points, which ranged 26 to 30 per day.  She is exercising pretty regularly.  She attends Overeaters Anonymous and her sponsor is helping her and told her to get some ideas on how to plan snacks to prevent hypoglycemia.  The patient requests information on diabetic exchanges.  She said she is feeling better since she has lost weight.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital Signs:  The patient's weight today is 209 pounds, which is down 22 pounds since I last saw her on 06/07/2004.  I praised her weight loss and her regular exercising.  I looked at her food journal.  I praised her record keeping.  I gave her a list of the diabetic exchanges and explained them.  I also gave her a food dairy sheet so that she could record exchanges.  I encouraged her to continue.,ASSESSMENT:,  The patient seems happy with her progress and she seems to be doing well.  She needs to continue.,PLAN:,  Followup is on a p.r.n. basis.  She is always welcome to call or return.

SUBJECTIVE:,  His brother, although he is a vegetarian, has elevated cholesterol and he is on medication to lower it.  The patient started improving his diet when he received the letter explaining his lipids are elevated.  He is consuming less cappuccino, quiche, crescents, candy from vending machines, etc.  He has started packing his lunch three to four times per week instead of eating out so much.  He is exercising six to seven days per week by swimming, biking, running, lifting weights one and a half to two and a half hours each time.  He is in training for a triathlon.  He says he is already losing weight due to his efforts.,OBJECTIVE:,  Height:  6 foot 2 inches.  Weight:  204 pounds on 03/07/05.  Ideal body weight:  190 pounds, plus or minus ten percent.  He is 107 percent standard of midpoint ideal body weight.  BMI:  26.189.  A 48-year-old male.  Lab on 03/15/05:  Cholesterol:  251.  LDL:  166.  VLDL:  17.  HDL:  68.  Triglycerides:  87.  I explained to the patient the dietary guidelines to help improve his lipids.  I recommend a 26 to 51 to 77 fat grams per day for a 10 to 20 to 30 percent fat level of 2,300 calories since he is interested in losing weight.  I went over the printed information sheet on lowering your cholesterol and that was given to him along with a booklet on the same topic to read.  I encouraged him to continue as he is doing.,ASSESSMENT:,  Basal energy expenditure 1960 x 1.44 activity factor is approximately 2,800 calories.  His 24-hour recall shows he is making many positive changes already to lower his fat and cholesterol intake.  He needs to continue as he is doing.  He verbalized understanding and seemed receptive.,PLAN:,  The patient plans to recheck his lipids through Dr. XYZ  I gave him my phone number and he is to call me if he has any further questions regarding his diet.

SUBJECTIVE:,  This is a 62-year-old female who comes for dietary consultation for carbohydrate counting for type I diabetes.  The patient reports that she was hospitalized over the weekend for DKA.  She indicates that her blood sugar on Friday night was 187 at bedtime and that when she woke up in the morning her blood sugar was 477.  She gave herself, in smaller increments, a total of 70 extra units of her Humalog.  Ten of those units were injectable; the others were in the forms of pump.  Her blood sugar was over 600 when she went to the hospital later that day.  She is here at this consultation complaining of not feeling well still because she has a cold.  She realizes that this is likely because her immune system was so minimized in the hospital.,OBJECTIVE:,  Current insulin doses on her insulin pump are boluses set at 5 units at breakfast, 6 units at lunch and 11 units at supper.  Her basal rates have not been changed since her last visit with Charla Yassine and totaled 30.5 units per 24 hours.  A diet history was obtained.  I instructed the patient on carbohydrate counting at 1 unit of insulin for every 10 g carbohydrate ratio was recommended.  A correction dose of approximately 1 unit of insulin to bring the blood sugars down 30 mg/dl was also recommended.  The Lilly guide for meal planning was provided and reviewed.  Additional carbohydrate counting book was provided.,ASSESSMENT:,  The patient was taught an insulin-to-carbohydrate ratio of 1 unit to 10 g of carbohydrates as recommended at the previous visit two years ago, which she does not recall.  It is based on the 500 rule which suggests this ratio.  We did identify carbohydrate sources in the food supply, recognizing 15-g equivalents.  We also identified the need to dose her insulin at the time that she is eating her carbohydrate sources.  She does seem to have a pattern of fixing blood sugars later in the day after they are elevated.  We discussed the other option of trying to eat a consistent amount of carbohydrates at meals from day to day and taking a consistent amount of insulin at those meals.  With this in mind, she was recommended to follow with three servings or 45 g of carbohydrate at breakfast, three servings or 45 g of carbohydrate at lunch and four servings or 60 g of carbohydrate at dinner.  Joanne Araiza joined our consultation briefly to discuss whether her pump was working appropriately.  The patient was given an 800 number for the pump to contact should there be any question about its failure to deliver insulin appropriately.,PLAN:,  Recommend the patient use 1 unit of insulin for every 10-g carbohydrate load consumed.  Recommend the patient either use this as a carbohydrate counting tool or work harder at keeping carbohydrate content consistent at meals from day to day.  This was a one-hour consultation.  Provided my name and number should additional needs arise.

SUBJECTIVE: , The patient is a 60-year-old female, who complained of coughing during meals.  Her outpatient evaluation revealed a mild-to-moderate cognitive linguistic deficit, which was completed approximately 2 months ago.  The patient had a history of hypertension and TIA/stroke.  The patient denied history of heartburn and/or gastroesophageal reflux disorder.  A modified barium swallow study was ordered to objectively evaluate the patient's swallowing function and safety and to rule out aspiration.,OBJECTIVE: , Modified barium swallow study was performed in the Radiology Suite in cooperation with Dr. ABC.  The patient was seated upright in a video imaging chair throughout this assessment.  To evaluate the patient's swallowing function and safety, she was administered graduated amounts of liquid and food mixed with barium in the form of thin liquid (teaspoon x2, cup sip x2); nectar-thick liquid (teaspoon x2, cup sip x2); puree consistency (teaspoon x2); and solid food consistency (1/4 cracker x1).,ASSESSMENT,ORAL STAGE:,  Premature spillage to the level of the valleculae and pyriform sinuses with thin liquid.  Decreased tongue base retraction, which contributed to vallecular pooling after the swallow.,PHARYNGEAL STAGE: , No aspiration was observed during this evaluation.  Penetration was noted with cup sips of thin liquid only.  Trace residual on the valleculae and on tongue base with nectar-thick puree and solid consistencies.  The patient's hyolaryngeal elevation and anterior movement are within functional limits.  Epiglottic inversion is within functional limits.,CERVICAL ESOPHAGEAL STAGE:  ,The patient's upper esophageal sphincter opening is well coordinated with swallow and readily accepted the bolus.  Radiologist noted reduced peristaltic action of the constricted muscles in the esophagus, which may be contributing to the patient's complaint of globus sensation.,DIAGNOSTIC IMPRESSION:,  No aspiration was noted during this evaluation.  Penetration with cup sips of thin liquid.  The patient did cough during this evaluation, but that was noted related to aspiration or penetration.,PROGNOSTIC IMPRESSION: ,Based on this evaluation, the prognosis for swallowing and safety is good.,PLAN: , Based on this evaluation and following recommendations are being made:,1.  The patient to take small bite and small sips to help decrease the risk of aspiration and penetration.,2.  The patient should remain upright at a 90-degree angle for at least 45 minutes after meals to decrease the risk of aspiration and penetration as well as to reduce her globus sensation.,3.  The patient should be referred to a gastroenterologist for further evaluation of her esophageal function.,The patient does not need any skilled speech therapy for her swallowing abilities at this time, and she is discharged from my services.

SUBJECTIVE: , The patient is admitted for shortness of breath, continues to do fairly well.  The patient has chronic atrial fibrillation, on anticoagulation, INR of 1.72.  The patient did undergo echocardiogram, which shows aortic stenosis, severe.  The patient does have an outside cardiologist.  I understand she was scheduled to undergo workup in this regard.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION,VITAL SIGNS:  Pulse of 78 and blood pressure 130/60.,LUNGS:  Clear.,HEART:  A soft systolic murmur in the aortic area.,ABDOMEN:  Soft and nontender.,EXTREMITIES:  No edema.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Status shortness of breath responding well to medical management.,2.  Atrial fibrillation, chronic, on anticoagulation.,3.  Aortic stenosis.,RECOMMENDATIONS:,1.  Continue medications as above.,2.  The patient would like to follow with her cardiologist regarding aortic stenosis.  She may need a surgical intervention in this regard, which I explained to her.  The patient will be discharged home on medical management and she has an appointment to see her cardiologist in the next few days.,In the interim, if she changes her mind or if she has any concerns, I have requested to call me back.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is admitted for lung mass and also pleural effusion.  The patient had a chest tube placement, which has been taken out.  The patient has chronic atrial fibrillation, on anticoagulation.  The patient is doing fairly well.  This afternoon, she called me because heart rate was in the range of 120 to 140.  The patient is lying down.  She does have shortness of breath, but denies any other significant symptoms.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  History of mastectomy, chest tube placement, and atrial fibrillation; chronic.,MEDICATIONS:,1.  Cardizem, which is changed to 60 mg p.o. t.i.d.,2.  Digoxin 0.25 mg daily.,3.  Coumadin, adjusted dose.,4.  Clindamycin.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION,VITAL SIGNS:  Pulse 122 and blood pressure 102/68.,LUNGS:  Air entry decreased.,HEART:  PMI is displaced.  S1 and S2 are irregular.,ABDOMEN:  Soft and nontender.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Pulmonary disorder with lung mass.,2.  Pleural effusion.,3.  Chronic uncontrolled atrial fibrillation secondary to pulmonary disorder.,RECOMMENDATIONS:,1.  From cardiac standpoint, follow with pulmonary treatment.,2.  The patient has an INR of 2.09.  She is on anticoagulation.  Atrial fibrillation is chronic with the rate increased.,Adjust the medications accordingly as above.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient returns to the Pulmonary Medicine Clinic for followup evaluation of COPD and emphysema.  She was last seen in the clinic in March 2004.  Since that time, she has been hospitalized for psychiatric problems and now is in a nursing facility.  She is very frustrated with her living situation and would like to return to her own apartment, however, some believes she is to ill to care for herself.,At the present time, respiratory status is relatively stable.  She is still short of breath with activity, but all-in-all her pulmonary disease has not changed significantly since her last visit.  She does have occasional cough and a small amount of sputum production.  No fever or chills.  No chest pains.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  The patient’s current medications are as outlined.,ALLERGIES TO MEDICATIONS:,  Erythromycin.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Significant for problems with agitated depression.  Her respiratory status is unchanged as noted above.,EXAMINATION:,General:  The patient is in no acute distress.,Vital signs:  Blood pressure is 152/80, pulse 80 and respiratory rate 16.,HEENT:  Nasal mucosa was mild-to-moderately erythematous and edematous.  Oropharynx was clear.,Neck:  Supple without palpable lymphadenopathy.,Chest:  Chest demonstrates decreased breath sounds throughout all lung fields, coarse but relatively clear.,Cardiovascular:  Distant heart tones.  Regular rate and rhythm.,Abdomen:  Soft and nontender.,Extremities:  Without edema.,Oxygen saturation was checked today on room air, at rest it was 90%.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease/emphysema, severe but stable.,2.  Mild hypoxemia, however, oxygen saturation at rest is stable without supplemental oxygen.,3.  History of depression and schizophrenia.,PLAN:,  At this point, I have recommended that she continue current respiratory medicine.  I did suggest that she would not use her oxygen when she is simply sitting, watching television or reading.  I have recommended that she use it with activity and at night.  I spoke with her about her living situation.  Encouraged her to speak with her family, as well as primary care physician about making efforts for her to return to her apartment.  Follow up evaluation is planned in Pulmonary Medicine Clinic in approximately three months or sooner if need be.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient returns to the Pulmonary Medicine Clinic for followup evaluation of interstitial disease secondary to lupus pneumonitis.  She was last seen in the Pulmonary Medicine Clinic in January 2004.  Since that time, her respiratory status has been quite good.  She has had no major respiratory difficulties; however, starting yesterday she began with increasing back and joint pain and as a result a deep breath has caused some back discomfort.  She denies any problems with cough or sputum production.  No fevers or chills.  Recently, she has had a bit more problems with fatigue.  For the most part, she has had no pulmonary limitations to her activity.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Synthroid 0.112 mg daily; Prilosec 20 mg daily; prednisone, she was 2.5 mg daily, but discontinued this on 06/16/2004; Plaquenil 200 mg b.i.d.; Imuran 100 mg daily; Advair one puff b.i.d.; Premarin 0.3 mg daily; Lipitor 10 mg Monday through Friday; Actonel 35 mg weekly; and aspirin 81 mg daily.  She is also on calcium, vitamin D, vitamin E, vitamin C and a multivitamin.,ALLERGIES:,  Penicillin and also intolerance to shellfish.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Noncontributory except as outlined above.,EXAMINATION:,General:  The patient was in no acute distress.,Vital signs:  Blood pressure 122/60, pulse 72 and respiratory rate 16.,HEENT:  Nasal mucosa was mild-to-moderately erythematous and edematous.  Oropharynx was clear.,Neck:  Supple without palpable lymphadenopathy.,Chest:  Chest demonstrates decreased breath sounds, but clear.,Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm.,Abdomen:  Soft and nontender.,Extremities:  Without edema.  No skin lesions.,O2 saturation was checked at rest.  On room air it was 96% and on ambulation it varied between 94% and 96%.  Chest x-ray obtained today showed mild increased interstitial markings consistent with a history of lupus pneumonitis.  She has not had the previous chest x-ray with which to compare; however, I did compare the markings was less prominent when compared with previous CT scan.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Lupus with mild pneumonitis.,2.  Respiratory status is stable.,3.  Increasing back and joint pain, possibly related to patient’s lupus, however, in fact may be related to recent discontinuation of prednisone.,PLAN:,  At this time, I have recommended to continue her current medications.  We would like to see her back in approximately four to five months, at which time I would like to recheck her pulmonary function test as well as check CAT scan.  At that point, it may be reasonable to consider weaning her Imuran if her pulmonary status is stable and the lupus appears to be under control.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 78-year-old female who returns for recheck.  She has hypertension.  She denies difficulty with chest pain, palpations, orthopnea, nocturnal dyspnea, or edema.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY / SURGERY / HOSPITALIZATIONS:,  Reviewed and unchanged from the dictation on 12/03/2003.,MEDICATIONS:  ,Atenolol 50 mg daily, Premarin 0.625 mg daily, calcium with vitamin D two to three pills daily, multivitamin daily, aspirin as needed, and TriViFlor 25 mg two pills daily.  She also has Elocon cream 0.1% and Synalar cream 0.01% that she uses as needed for rash.,ALLERGIES:  ,Benadryl, phenobarbitone, morphine, Lasix, and latex.,FAMILY HISTORY / PERSONAL HISTORY: , Reviewed.  Mother died from congestive heart failure.  Father died from myocardial infarction at the age of 56.  Family history is positive for ischemic cardiac disease.  Brother died from lymphoma.  She has one brother living who has had angioplasties x 2.  She has one brother with asthma.,PERSONAL HISTORY:,  Negative for use of alcohol or tobacco.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,Bones and Joints:  She has had continued difficulty with lower back pain particularly with standing which usually radiates down her right leg.  She had been followed by Dr. Mills, but decided to see Dr. XYZ who referred to her Dr Isaac.  She underwent several tests.  She did have magnetic resonance angiography of the lower extremities and the aorta which were normal.  She had nerve conduction study that showed several peripheral polyneuropathy.  She reports that she has myelogram last week but has not got results of this.  She reports that the rest of her tests have been normal, but it seems that vertebrae shift when she stands and then pinches the nerve.  She is now seeing Dr. XYZ who comes to Hutchison from KU Medical Center, and she thinks that she probably will have surgery in the near future.,Genitourinary:  She has occasional nocturia.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,Vital Signs:  Weight:  227.2 pounds.  Blood pressure:  144/72.  Pulse:  80.  Temperature:  97.5 degrees.,General Appearance:  She is an elderly female patient who is not in acute distress.,Mouth:  Posterior pharynx is clear.,Neck:  Without adenopathy or thyromegaly.,Chest:  Lungs are resonant to percussion.  Auscultation reveals normal breath sounds.,Heart:  Normal S1 and S2 without gallops or rubs.,Abdomen:  Without masses or tenderness to palpation.,Extremities:  Without edema.,IMPRESSION/PLAN:,1.  Hypertension.  She is advised to continue with the same medication.,2.  Syncope.  She previously had an episode of syncope around Thanksgiving.  She has not had a recurrence of this and her prior cardiac studies did not show arrhythmias.,3.  Spinal stenosis.  She still is being evaluated for this and possibly will have surgery in the near future.

SUBJECTIVE: , This is a 42-year-old white female who comes in today for a complete physical and follow up on asthma.  She says her asthma has been worse over the last three months.  She has been using her inhaler daily.  Her allergies seem to be a little bit worse as well.  Her husband has been hauling corn and this seems to aggravate things.  She has not been taking Allegra daily but when she does take it, it seems to help somewhat.  She has not been taking her Flonase which has helped her in the past.  She also notes that in the past she was on Advair but she got some vaginal irritation with that.,She had been noticing increasing symptoms of irritability and PMS around her menstrual cycle.  She has been more impatient around that time.  Says otherwise her mood is normal during the rest of the month.  It usually is worse the week before her cycle and improves the day her menstrual cycle starts.  Menses have been regular but somewhat shorter than in the past.  Occasionally she will get some spotting after her cycles.  She denies any hot flashes or night sweats with this.  In reviewing the chart it is noted that she did have 3+ blood with what appeared to be a urinary tract infection previously.  Her urine has not been rechecked.  She recently had lab work and cholesterol drawn for a life insurance application and is going to send me those results when available.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , As above.  No fevers, no headaches, no shortness of breath currently.  No chest pain or tightness.  No abdominal pain, no heartburn, no constipation, diarrhea or dysuria.  Occasional stress incontinence.  No muscle or joint pain.  No concerns about her skin.  No polyphagia, polydipsia or polyuria.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Significant for asthma, allergic rhinitis and cervical dysplasia.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , She is married.  She is a nonsmoker.,MEDICATIONS: , Proventil and Allegra.,ALLERGIES: , Sulfa.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital signs:  Her weight is 151 pounds.  Blood pressure is 110/60.  Pulse is 72.  Temperature is 97.1 degrees.  Respirations are 20.,General:  This is a well-developed, well-nourished 42-year-old white female, alert and oriented in no acute distress.  Affect is appropriate and is pleasant.,HEENT:  Normocephalic, atraumatic.  Tympanic membranes are clear.  Conjunctivae are clear.  Pupils are equal, round and reactive to light.  Nares without turbinate edema.  Oropharynx is nonerythematous.,Neck:  Supple without lymphadenopathy, thyromegaly, carotid bruit or JVD.,Chest:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.,Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur.,Abdomen:  Soft, nontender, nondistended.  Normoactive bowel sounds.  No masses or organomegaly to palpation.,Extremities:  Without cyanosis or edema.,Skin:  Without abnormalities.,Breasts:  Normal symmetrical breasts without dimpling or retraction.  No nipple discharge.  No masses or lesions to palpation.  No axillary masses or lymphadenopathy.,Genitourinary:  Normal external genitalia.  The walls of the vaginal vault are visualized with normal pink rugae with no lesions noted.  Cervix is visualized without lesion.  She has a moderate amount of thick white/yellow vaginal discharge in the vaginal vault.  No cervical motion tenderness.  No adnexal tenderness or fullness.,ASSESSMENT/PLAN:,1.  Asthma.  Seems to be worse than in the past.  She is just using her Proventil inhaler but is using it daily.  We will add Flovent 44 mcg two puffs p.o. b.i.d.  May need to increase the dose.  She did get some vaginal irritation with Advair in the past but she is willing to retry that if it is necessary.  May also need to consider Singulair.  She is to call me if she is not improving.  If her shortness of breath worsens she is to call me or go into the emergency department.  We will plan on following up for reevaluation in one month.,2.  Allergic rhinitis.  We will plan on restarting Allegra and Flonase daily for the time being.,3.  Premenstrual dysphoric disorder.  She may have some perimenopausal symptoms.  We will start her on fluoxetine 20 mg one tablet p.o. q.d.,4.  Hematuria.  Likely this is secondary to urinary tract infection but we will repeat a UA to document clearing.  She does have some frequent dysuria but is not having it currently.,5.  Cervical dysplasia.  Pap smear is taken.  We will notify the patient of results.  If normal we will go back to yearly Pap smear.  She is scheduled for screening mammogram and instructed on monthly self-breast exam techniques.  Recommend she get 1200 mg of calcium and 400 U of vitamin D a day.

SUBJECTIVE: , Review of the medical record shows that the patient is a 97-year-old female patient who has been admitted and has been treated for community acquired pneumonia along with COPD exacerbation.  The patient does have a longstanding history of COPD.  However, she does not use oxygen at her independent assisted living home.  Yesterday, she had made improvement since being here at the hospital.  She needed oxygen.  She was tested for home O2 and qualified for it yesterday also.  Her lungs were very tight.  She did have wheezes bilaterally and rhonchi on the right side mostly.  She appeared to be a bit weak and although she was requesting to be discharged home, she did not appear to be fit for it.,Overnight, the patient needed to use the rest room.  She stated that she needed to urinate.  She awoke, decided not to call for assistance.  She stated that she did have her nurse call light button next to her and she was unable to gain access to her walker.  She attempted to walk to the rest room on her own.  She sustained a fall.  She stated that she just felt weak.  She bumped her knee and her elbow.  She had femur x-rays, knee x-rays also.  There was possibility of subchondral fracture and some swelling of her suprapatellar bursa on the right side.  This morning, she denied any headache, back pain or neck pain.  She complained mostly of right anterior knee pain for which she had some bruising and swelling.,OBJECTIVE:,VITAL SIGNS:  The patient's max temperature over the past 24 hours was 36.5; her blood pressure is 148/77, her pulse is 87 to 106.  She is 95% on 2 L via nasal cannula.,HEART:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur, gallop or rub.,LUNGS:  Reveal no expiratory wheezing throughout.  She does have some rhonchi on the right mid base.  She did have a productive cough this morning and she is coughing green purulent sputum finally.,ABDOMEN:  Soft and nontender.  Her bowel sounds x4 are normoactive.,NEUROLOGIC:  She is alert and oriented x3.  Her pupils are equal and reactive.  She has got a good head and facial muscle strength.  Her tongue is midline.  She has got clear speech.  Her extraocular motions are intact.  Her spine is nontender on palpation from neck to lumbar spine.  She has good range of motion with regard to her shoulders, elbows, wrists and fingers.  Her grip strengths are equal bilaterally.  Both elbows are strong from extension to flexion.  Her hip flexors and extenders are also strong and equal bilaterally.  Extension and flexion of the knee bilaterally and ankles also are strong.  Palpation of her right knee reveals no crepitus.  She does have suprapatellar inflammation with some ecchymosis and swelling.  She has got good joint range of motion however.,SKIN:  She did have a skin tear involving her right forearm lateral, which is approximately 2 to 2.5 inches in length and is at this time currently Steri-Stripped and wrapped with Coban and is not actively bleeding.,ASSESSMENT:,1.  Acute on chronic COPD exacerbation.,2.  Community acquired pneumonia both resolving.  However, she may need home O2 for a short period of time.,3.  Generalized weakness and deconditioning secondary to the above.  Also sustained a fall secondary to instability and not using her walker or calling for assistance.  The patient stated that she knew better and she should have called for assistance and she had been told repeatedly from her family members and staff to call for assistance if she needed to get out of bed.,PLAN:,1.  I will have PT and OT evaluate the patient and give recommendation to safety and appliance use at home i.e. walker.  Myself and one of her daughter's spoke today about the fact that she generally lives independently at the Brooke and she may need assisted living along with physical therapy and oxygen for a period of time rather than going back to independent living.,2.  We will obtain an orthopedic consult secondary to her fall to evaluate her x-rays and function.

SUBJECTIVE:,  The patient is a 78-year-old female with the problem of essential hypertension.  She has symptoms that suggested intracranial pathology, but so far work-up has been negative.,She is taking hydrochlorothiazide 25-mg once a day and K-Dur 10-mEq once a day with adequate control of her blood pressure.  She denies any chest pain, shortness of breath, PND, ankle swelling, or dizziness.,OBJECTIVE:,  Heart rate is 80 and blood pressure is 130/70.  Head and neck are unremarkable.  Heart sounds are normal.  Abdomen is benign.  Extremities are without edema.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,  The patient reports that she had an echocardiogram done in the office of Dr. Sample Doctor4 and was told that she had a massive heart attack in the past.  I have not had the opportunity to review any investigative data like chest x-ray, echocardiogram, EKG, etc.  So, I advised her to have a chest x-ray and an EKG done before her next appointment, and we will try to get hold of the echocardiogram on her from the office of Dr. Sample Doctor4.  In the meantime, she is doing quite well, and she was advised to continue her current medication and return to the office in three months for followup.

SUBJECTIVE: , The patient is not in acute distress.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,VITAL SIGNS:  Blood pressure of 121/63, pulse is 75, and O2 saturation is 94% on room air.,HEAD AND NECK:  Face is symmetrical.  Cranial nerves are intact.,CHEST:  There is prolonged expiration.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  First and second heart sounds are heard.  No murmur was appreciated.,ABDOMEN:  Soft and nontender.  Bowel sounds are positive.,EXTREMITIES:  He has 2+ pedal swelling.,NEUROLOGIC:  The patient is asleep, but easily arousable.,LABORATORY DATA:,  PTT is 49.  INR is pending.  BUN is improved to 20.6, creatinine is 0.7, sodium is 123, and potassium is 3.8.  AST is down to 45 and ALT to 99.,DIAGNOSTIC STUDIES: , Nuclear stress test showed moderate size, mostly fixed defect involving the inferior wall with a small area of peri-infarct ischemia.  Ejection fraction is 25%.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:,1.  Congestive heart failure due to rapid atrial fibrillation and systolic dysfunction.  Continue current treatment as per Cardiology.  We will consider adding ACE inhibitors as renal function improves.,2.  Acute pulmonary edema, resolved.,3.  Rapid atrial fibrillation, rate controlled.  The patient is on beta-blockers and digoxin.  Continue Coumadin.  Monitor INR.,4.  Coronary artery disease with ischemic cardiomyopathy.  Continue beta-blockers.,5.  Urinary tract infection.  Continue Rocephin.,6.  Bilateral perfusion secondary to congestive heart failure.  We will monitor.,7.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, stable.,8.  Abnormal liver function due to congestive heart failure with liver congestion, improving.,9.  Rule out hypercholesterolemia.  We will check lipid profile.,10.  Tobacco smoking disorder.  The patient has been counseled.,11.  Hyponatremia, stable.  This is due to fluid overload.  Continue diuresis as per Nephrology.,12.  Deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis.  The patient is on heparin drip.

SUBJECTIVE: , The patient states that she feels better.  She is on IV amiodarone, the dosage pattern is appropriate for ventricular tachycardia.  Researching the available records, I find only an EMS verbal statement that tachycardia of wide complex was seen.  There is no strip for me to review all available EKG tracings show a narrow complex atrial fibrillation pattern that is now converted to sinus rhythm.,The patient states that for a week, she has been home postoperative from aortic valve replacement on 12/01/08 at ABC Medical Center.  The aortic stenosis was secondary to a congenital bicuspid valve, by her description.  She states that her shortness of breath with exertion has been stable, but has yet to improve from its preoperative condition.  She has not had any decline in her postoperative period of her tolerance to exertion.,The patient had noted intermittent bursts of fast heart rate at home that had been increasing over the last several days.  Last night, she had a prolonged episode for which she contacted EMS.  Her medications at home had been uninterrupted and without change from those listed, being Toprol-XL 100 mg q.a.m., Dyazide 25/37.5 mg, Nexium 40 mg, all taken once a day.  She has been maintaining her Crestor and Zetia at 20 and 10 mg respectively.  She states that she has been taking her aspirin at 325 mg q.a.m.  She remains on Zyrtec 10 mg q.a.m.  Her only allergy is listed to latex.,OBJECTIVE:,VITAL SIGNS:  Temperature 36.1, heart rate 60, respirations 14, room air saturation 98%, and blood pressure 108/60.  The patient shows a normal sinus rhythm on the telemetry monitor with an occasional PAC.,GENERAL:  She is alert and in no apparent distress.,HEENT:  Eyes:  EOMI.  PERRLA.  Sclerae nonicteric.  No lesions of lids, lashes, brows, or conjunctivae noted.  Funduscopic examination unremarkable.  Ears:  Normal set, shape, TMs, canals and hearing.  Nose and Sinuses:  Negative.  Mouth, Tongue, Teeth, and Throat:  Negative except for dental work.,NECK:  Supple and pain free without bruit, JVD, adenopathy or thyroid abnormality.,CHEST:  Lungs are clear bilaterally to auscultation.  The incision is well healed and without evidence of significant cellulitis.,HEART:  Shows a regular rate and rhythm without murmur, gallop, heave, click, thrill or rub.  There is an occasional extra beat noted, which corresponds to a premature atrial contraction on the monitor.,ABDOMEN:  Soft and benign without hepatosplenomegaly, rebound, rigidity or guarding.,EXTREMITIES:  Show no evidence of DVT, acute arthritis, cellulitis or pedal edema.,NEUROLOGIC:  Nonfocal without lateralizing findings for cranial or peripheral nervous systems, strength, sensation, and cerebellar function.  Gait and station were not tested.,MENTAL STATUS:  Shows the patient to be alert, coherent with full capacity for decision making.,BACK:  Negative to inspection or percussion.,LABORATORY DATA: , Shows from 12/15/08 2100, hemoglobin 11.6, white count 12.9, and platelets 126,000.  INR 1.0.  Electrolytes are normal with exception potassium 3.3.  GFR is decreased at 50 with creatinine of 1.1.  Glucose was 119.  Magnesium was 2.3.  Phosphorus 3.8.  Calcium was slightly low at 7.8.  The patient has had ionized calcium checked at Munson that was normal at 4.5 prior to her discharge.  Troponin is negative x2 from 2100 and repeat at 07:32.  This morning, her BNP was 163 at admission.  Her admission chest x-ray was unremarkable and did not show evidence of cardiomegaly to suggest pericardial effusion.  Her current EKG tracing from 05:42 shows a sinus bradycardia with Wolff-Parkinson White Pattern, a rate of 58 beats per minute, and a corrected QT interval of 557 milliseconds.  Her PR interval was 0.12.,We received a call from Munson Medical Center that a bed had been arranged for the patient.  I contacted Dr. Varner and we reviewed the patient's managed to this point.  All combined impression is that the patient was likely to not have had actual ventricular tachycardia.  This is based on her EP study from October showing her to be non-inducible.  In addition, she had a cardiac catheterization that showed no evidence of coronary artery disease.  What is most likely that the patient has postoperative atrial fibrillation.  Her WPW may have degenerated into a ventricular tachycardia, but this is unlikely.  At this point, we will convert the patient from IV amiodarone to oral amiodarone and obtain an echocardiogram to verify that she does not have evidence of pericardial effusion in the postoperative period.  I will recheck her potassium, magnesium, calcium, and phosphorus at this point and make adjustments if indicated.  Dr. Varner will be making arrangements for an outpatient Holter monitor and further followup post-discharge.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response.,2.  Wolff-Parkinson White Syndrome.,3.  Recent aortic valve replacement with bioprosthetic Medtronic valve.,4.  Hyperlipidemia.

SUBJECTIVE: , This is a 42-year-old white female who comes in today for a complete physical and follow up on asthma.  She says her asthma has been worse over the last three months.  She has been using her inhaler daily.  Her allergies seem to be a little bit worse as well.  Her husband has been hauling corn and this seems to aggravate things.  She has not been taking Allegra daily but when she does take it, it seems to help somewhat.  She has not been taking her Flonase which has helped her in the past.  She also notes that in the past she was on Advair but she got some vaginal irritation with that.,She had been noticing increasing symptoms of irritability and PMS around her menstrual cycle.  She has been more impatient around that time.  Says otherwise her mood is normal during the rest of the month.  It usually is worse the week before her cycle and improves the day her menstrual cycle starts.  Menses have been regular but somewhat shorter than in the past.  Occasionally she will get some spotting after her cycles.  She denies any hot flashes or night sweats with this.  In reviewing the chart it is noted that she did have 3+ blood with what appeared to be a urinary tract infection previously.  Her urine has not been rechecked.  She recently had lab work and cholesterol drawn for a life insurance application and is going to send me those results when available.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , As above.  No fevers, no headaches, no shortness of breath currently.  No chest pain or tightness.  No abdominal pain, no heartburn, no constipation, diarrhea or dysuria.  Occasional stress incontinence.  No muscle or joint pain.  No concerns about her skin.  No polyphagia, polydipsia or polyuria.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Significant for asthma, allergic rhinitis and cervical dysplasia.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , She is married.  She is a nonsmoker.,MEDICATIONS: , Proventil and Allegra.,ALLERGIES: , Sulfa.,OBJECTIVE:,Vital signs:  Her weight is 151 pounds.  Blood pressure is 110/60.  Pulse is 72.  Temperature is 97.1 degrees.  Respirations are 20.,General:  This is a well-developed, well-nourished 42-year-old white female, alert and oriented in no acute distress.  Affect is appropriate and is pleasant.,HEENT:  Normocephalic, atraumatic.  Tympanic membranes are clear.  Conjunctivae are clear.  Pupils are equal, round and reactive to light.  Nares without turbinate edema.  Oropharynx is nonerythematous.,Neck:  Supple without lymphadenopathy, thyromegaly, carotid bruit or JVD.,Chest:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.,Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur.,Abdomen:  Soft, nontender, nondistended.  Normoactive bowel sounds.  No masses or organomegaly to palpation.,Extremities:  Without cyanosis or edema.,Skin:  Without abnormalities.,Breasts:  Normal symmetrical breasts without dimpling or retraction.  No nipple discharge.  No masses or lesions to palpation.  No axillary masses or lymphadenopathy.,Genitourinary:  Normal external genitalia.  The walls of the vaginal vault are visualized with normal pink rugae with no lesions noted.  Cervix is visualized without lesion.  She has a moderate amount of thick white/yellow vaginal discharge in the vaginal vault.  No cervical motion tenderness.  No adnexal tenderness or fullness.,ASSESSMENT/PLAN:,1.  Asthma.  Seems to be worse than in the past.  She is just using her Proventil inhaler but is using it daily.  We will add Flovent 44 mcg two puffs p.o. b.i.d.  May need to increase the dose.  She did get some vaginal irritation with Advair in the past but she is willing to retry that if it is necessary.  May also need to consider Singulair.  She is to call me if she is not improving.  If her shortness of breath worsens she is to call me or go into the emergency department.  We will plan on following up for reevaluation in one month.,2.  Allergic rhinitis.  We will plan on restarting Allegra and Flonase daily for the time being.,3.  Premenstrual dysphoric disorder.  She may have some perimenopausal symptoms.  We will start her on fluoxetine 20 mg one tablet p.o. q.d.,4.  Hematuria.  Likely this is secondary to urinary tract infection but we will repeat a UA to document clearing.  She does have some frequent dysuria but is not having it currently.,5.  Cervical dysplasia.  Pap smear is taken.  We will notify the patient of results.  If normal we will go back to yearly Pap smear.  She is scheduled for screening mammogram and instructed on monthly self-breast exam techniques.  Recommend she get 1200 mg of calcium and 400 U of vitamin D a day.

